

Delhi High Court

Raj Rewal vs Union Of India & Ors on 28 May, 2019

    
    
    *     IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    %                                           Date of decision: 28th May, 2019
    
    +     CS(COMM) 3/2018, IA No.90/2018 (u/O XXXIX R-1&2 CPC) &
          IA No.92/2018 (u/s 80(2) CPC)
          RAJ REWAL                                  ..... PLAINTIFF
                      Through: Mr. C.M. Lall, Sr. Adv. with Mr.
                                Vedanta Varma, Ms. Nancy Roy,
                                Mr. Rupin Bahl & Mr. Akhil Kumar
                                Gola, Advs.
                             Versus
        UNION OF INDIA & ORS                   ..... DEFENDANTS
                      Through: Mr. Sanjay Jain, Sr. Adv. with Mr.
                                Saket Sikri, Mr. Vikalp Mudgal, Mr.
                                Yuvraj, Ms. Sneh Suman & Mr. Neil
                                Mason, Advs.
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW
    
    1.    The question for consideration is, whether an Architect, as author of
    artistic work of architecture in the form of a building or structure having an
    artistic character or design and having a copyright therein, upon the owner
    of the land on which building is constructed choosing to demolish the said
    building to construct another building in its place, has a right to restrain the
    owner from doing so and if the building has been demolished, to demand
    compensation therefor including by reconstruction of a building in
    accordance with the architectural drawings or plans by reference to which
    the building or structure was originally constructed.
    
    2.    The plaintiff has instituted this suit pleading that:
    
    
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                              Page 1 of 32
           (a)    plaintiff is an acclaimed architect, a distinguished doyen of
                 architecture from India who is recognized internationally; the
                 plaintiff has designed many important buildings throughout his
                 forty years of distinguished career; some of the creations
                 include the Hall of Nations, the Nehru Pavilion, the Asian
                 Games Village, National Institute of Immunology, SCOPE
                 Office Complex, the Library for the Indian Parliament, all in
                 Delhi, the Lisbon Ismaili Centre, Portugal, the Indian Embassy
                 in Beijing and the Visual Art University in Rohtak; the
                 plaintiff is the author of the artistic work in all the said works
                 of architecture and is the exclusive owner of the copyright in
                 the said architectural works;
    
          (b)    the Hall of Nations and the Hall of Industries designed by the
                 plaintiff were constructed in the year 1972 for the purpose of
                 promoting commercial activities across 2,00,000 sq ft. area and
                 the structure thereof was designed by Mr. Mahendra Raj;
    
          (c)    the design thereof was evolved to meet the constraints of time,
                 availability of material and labour but above all, to reflect
                 symbolically and technologically, the nation‟s prowess in
                 structural engineering and architecture in the 25th year of its
                 independence;
    
          (d)    the architectural ingenuity in these buildings has gained the
                 plaintiff and Mr. Mahendra Raj a unique distinction of being
                 the first "Large Span Concrete Structure" in the world;
    
    
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                              Page 2 of 32
           (e)    these iconic structures symbolize self sufficiency of the
                 country for the use of concrete as against the more expensive
                 alternate of using steel and iron to construct such buildings and
                 structures;
    
          (f)    the work of architecture in the said buildings has been
                 applauded by other well-known celebrated architects within
                 and outside India, including in their literary works in the field
                 of architecture;
    
          (g)    the aforesaid      buildings   were also    celebrated    in     the
                 commemorative stamp issued by the Government of India in
                 the year 1992;
    
          (h)    the Nehru Pavilion in the said building has been exhibited in
                 several international and national exhibitions and featured in
                 various international and national magazines and publications;
    
          (i)    Bye-Law 23.16 of the Delhi Building Bye-Laws, 1983 and
                 Bye-Law 7.26 and Para 1.15 of Annexure-II of Unified
                 Building Bye-Laws for Delhi, 2016, provide for constitution of
                 a Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) to prepare a list of
                 heritage sites and for conservation thereof; HCC was finally
                 constituted under the orders of the Supreme Court and started
                 functioning with effect from 6th August, 2004;
    
          (j)    the Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage
                 (INTACH) compiled a list of 62 iconic buildings to be
                 declared as heritage sites and forwarded the same to the HCC
    
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                             Page 3 of 32
                  and the said list was discussed in the meetings of the HCC
                 from time to time; the Hall of Nations and Nehru Pavilion
                 were included in the said list of 62 iconic buildings;
    
          (k)    the defendant no.2 Indian Trade Promotion Council (ITPO)
                 mooted a proposal for demolition of Hall of Nations and the
                 Nehru Pavilion and the same was immediately represented
                 against by the plaintiff and Mr. Mahendra Raj;
    
          (l)    upon the representations of the plaintiff not meeting with any
                 success and the HCC also not taking any steps for finalizing
                 the heritage sites and making provisions for conservation and
                 preservation thereof, the plaintiff filed W.P.(C) No.1146/2016
                 in this Court for revocation of the decision taken by defendant
                 no.2 ITPO of demolition of Hall of Nations and Nehru
                 Pavilion as part of the proposed re-structuring of Pragati
                 Maidan Complex; the said writ petition was dismissed vide
                 judgment dated 24th February, 2016 on the ground that mere
                 pendency of representations to declare the building as heritage
                 sites cannot be the basis to stall the re-development of the
                 Pragati Maidan Complex;
    
          (m)    the plaintiff thereafter filed W.P.(C) No.2731/2017 for
                 declaration of Hall of Nations, Hall of Industries and Nehru
                 Pavilion as works of art of national importance and for
                 preservation thereof during the proposed re-development of the
                 Pragati Maidan; the said writ petition was dismissed vide order
                 dated 20th April, 2017 on the ground that the HCC had already
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                              Page 4 of 32
                  examined the issue and had not directed the preservation of the
                 building;
    
          (n)    the plaintiff preferred LPA No.299/2017 against the order
                 dated 20th April, 2017 of dismissal of W.P.(C) No.2731/2017
                 and which appeal was pending at the time of institution of this
                 suit;
    
          (o)    even before the appeal aforesaid could be heard, the defendant
                 no.2 ITPO started demolishing the buildings in question and
                 within a short span of time reduced the said buildings to rubble
                 except the foundation thereof; and,
    
          (p)    Section 57 of the Copyright Act, 1957 protects the author‟s
                 right of paternity as also right of integrity and hence makes
                 actionable, distortion, mutilation or modification thereof, if
                 established to be prejudicial to the author‟s reputation or
                 honour; the act of demolition of the buildings aforesaid is
                 contrary to the provisions of Section 57 of the Copyright Act.
    
    3.    The suit has been filed, seeking mandatory injunction against Union
    of India and Indian Trade Promotion Organization (ITPO) to compensate
    the plaintiff by recreating the work of architecture in the Hall of Nations
    and Nehru Pavilion at the same location or at any other location in Delhi
    which is equally prominent as the earlier location of the said buildings,
    under the direct supervision of the plaintiff.
    
    4.    The suit came up before this Court first on 5 th January, 2018 when
    inter alia the following order was passed:
    
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                            Page 5 of 32
           ―7. I have at the outset enquired from the senior counsel for
          the plaintiff as to how the plaintiff, who is an architect and
          author of the architectural drawings on the basis of which
          buildings aforesaid were constructed, can claim to be the
          author of the buildings.
          8.    The senior counsel for the plaintiff draws attention to
          Section 2(b) of the Act defining ‗Work of Architecture' and to
          Section 2(c)(ii) defining ‗Artistic Work' and has contended that
          an architect would also be the author of the building
          constructed in accordance with his architectural drawings.
          9.     Attention of the senior counsel for the plaintiff has been
          invited to Section 2(d)(iii) defining ‗Author' in relation to an
          artistic work other than a photograph and it has been enquired
          whether an architect who has merely prepared the drawings on
          the board, can claim to be the author of the building
          constructed in accordance therewith as also with the input of
          structural engineer and a large number of other
          persons/workers. It has further been enquired from the senior
          counsel for the plaintiff whether not the best architectural
          drawing are known to lead to not so best result/construction
          and vice versa and how can the architect who is merely the
          author of the architectural drawings can claim authorship of a
          building constructed over the land. The senior counsel is
          reminded of the Taj Mahal Hotel, Bombay, the popular story
          about which goes that the Foreign Architect thereof, after
          preparing the drawings went home, only to on return find the
          building, purportedly in accordance with his drawings, having
          been constructed wrong way around with what should have
          been sea facing and frontage being on the non sea facing side
          and vice versa.
          10. It has further been enquired, as to how the architect can
          appropriate to himself a right over the land on which a building
          with his architectural drawings is constructed and have a right
          of prior consent for all future utilization of the said land.
          11. It has further been asked from the senior counsel for the
          plaintiff, whether Section 57 of the Act would apply to each and
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                           Page 6 of 32
           every building constructed with architectural drawing and to all
          architects.
          12. The senior counsel for the plaintiff is ambivalent in his
          reply.
          13. It prima facie appears that Section 57 of the Act applies
          only to the buildings which have been declared to be heritage
          buildings or of national importance. The plaintiff, though
          attempted to have the buildings aforesaid so declared, has not
          succeeded.
          14. I am of the prima facie view that to interpret Section 57
          as sought, would be an impediment to modernization and will
          interfere with rights of owner of land/building constructed
          thereon to land/property. The land use, FAR, amenities, keep
          changing with times and land, of which no more is being
          produced, cannot be allowed to be so locked up.
          15. Though the senior counsel for the plaintiff has referred to
          dicta of Coordinate Bench in Amar Nath Sehgal Vs. Union of
          India 117 (2005) DLT 717 which is said to have attained
          finality but the same was not concerned with aforesaid issue.
          16. Being of the view that before this suit is admitted, the
          said threshold should be crossed, I have requested the presence
          of the learned Additional Solicitor General (ASG) also and he
          has been apprised of the queries made from the senior counsel
          for the plaintiff for admission.
          17. It is deemed appropriate that both, if so desire, may file
          synopsis of their respective submissions and exchange the same
          before the next date of hearing.
          18.    List on 15th January, 2018.‖
    
    
    5.    Thereafter the senior counsel for the plaintiff and the senior counsel
    for defendant No.2 ITPO were heard on 24th April, 2018 and 9th May, 2018
    when orders on admission of the suit were reserved.
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                           Page 7 of 32
     6.    Section 57 of the Copyright Act, on which rights claimed in this suit
    are premised, is as under:
    
          ―57. Author's special right.--[(1) Independently of the
          author's copyright and even after the assignment either wholly
          or partially of the said copyright, the author of a work shall
          have the right--
                 (a) to claim authorship of the work; and
                 (b) to restrain or claim damages in respect of any
                        distortion, mutilation, modification or other act in
                        relation to the said work if such distortion,
                        mutilation, modification or other act would be
                        prejudicial to his honour or reputation:
                 Provided that the author shall not have any right to
          restrain or claim damages in respect of any adaptation of a
          computer programme to which clause (aa) of sub-section (1)
          of section 52 applies.
                 Explanation.--Failure to display a work or to display it
          to the satisfaction of the author shall not be deemed to be an
          infringement of the rights conferred by this section.]
          (2) The right conferred upon an author of a work by sub-
          section (1) may be exercised by the legal representatives of the
          author.‖
    
    7.    Attention during the hearing was also invited to Section 2(b),(c) and
    (d), Section 13(1)(a), Section 13(5) and Section 14(c) of the Copyright Act,
    which are as under:
    
          "2.    Interpretation - in this Act, unless the context otherwise
                 requires, -
                 (a) ........
                 (b) ―work of architecture‖ means any building or structure
                       having an artistic character or design, or any model for
                       such building or structure;
                 (c) ―artistic work‖ means,--
                       (i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a
                           diagram, map, chart or plan), an engraving or a
    CS(COMM) No.3/2018                                             Page 8 of 32
                              photograph, whether or not any such work possesses
                             artistic quality;
                        (ii) a work of architecture; and
                        (iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship;
                (d) ―author‖ means, --
                        (i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author
                             of the work;
                        (ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer;
                        (iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a
                        photograph, the artist;
                        (iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the
                        photograph;
                        (v) in relation to a cinematograph film or sound
                        recording, the producer; and
                        (vi) in relation to any literary, dramatic, musical or
                        artistic work which is computer-generated, the person
                        who causes the work to be created.
          13. Works in which copyright subsists.-- (1) Subject to the
          provisions of this section and the other provisions of this Act,
          copyright shall subsist throughout India in the following classes of
          works, that is to say,--
                (a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works;
                (b) cinematograph films; and
                (c) sound recording.
                ......
    

(5) In the case of work of architecture, copyright shall subsist only in the
artistic character and design and shall not extend to processes or methods of
construction.

14\. Meaning of Copyright.-- For the purposes of this Act, ―copyright‖ means
the exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise
the doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial
part thereof, namely:--

> (a) .....

> (b) .....

> (c) in the case of an artistic work,--(i) to reproduce the work in any
> material form including--

> (A) the storing of it in any medium by electronic or other means; or
> CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 9 of 32 (B) depiction in three-dimensions of a two-
> dimensional work; or (C) depiction in two-dimensions of a three-dimensional
> work;

> (ii) to communicate the work to the public;

> (iii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
> circulation;

> (iv) to include the work in any cinematograph film;

> (v) to make any adaptation of the work;

> (vi) to do in relation to adaptation of the work any of the acts specified
> in relation to the work in sub-clauses (i) to (iv).‖ (emphasis added)

8\. Amar Nath Sehgal supra relied upon by the senior counsel for the plaintiff
in the hearing on 5th January, 2018 was a suit filed by another well known
artist of the country, being the Sculptor of a mural adorning Vigyan Bhawan at
New Delhi. Upon the mural being pulled down and consigned to the store room,
the suit was filed for declaration of violation of the plaintiff‟s special
rights under Section 57 of the Copyright Act and seeking an apology and
injunction restraining further distortion, mutilation and damage to the mural
and compensation for demolition, injury, insult and loss of reputation
suffered by the plaintiff. It was held that (i) copyright law in India is at
par with the Berne Convention; (ii) in conformity with the Berne Convention,
Section 57 of the Act protects the author‟s right of paternity as also right
of integrity; (iii) distortion, mutilation or modification, if established to
be prejudicial to the author‟s reputation or honour are actionable; and, (iv)
there is an urgent need to interpret Section 57 of the Act in its wider
amplitude to include destruction of a work of art, being the extreme form of
mutilation, since by reducing the volume of the authors creative corpus, it
affects his reputation. The right of the author CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 10 of
32 was held to include an action to protect the integrity of the work in
relation to the cultural heritage of the nation. Accordingly, mandatory
injunction was issued directing the Union of India to return to the plaintiff
the remnants of the mural and a declaration issued that all rights in the
mural vested in the plaintiff and damages in the sum of Rs.5 lacs awarded
against Union of India.

9\. The senior counsel for the plaintiff in the subsequent hearings contended
that (a) artistic work includes a work of architecture and the author thereof
is the architect; (b) vide Section 13(1)(a) of the Copyright Act, copyright
subsists in such artistic work; Section 13(5) only clarifies that the said
copyright subsists only in artistic character and design and does not extend
to process and methods of construction; (c) vide Section 14(c) of the Act,
copyright in the case of artistic work confers in the architect, the exclusive
right to reproduce the work in any form; (d) the Copyright Act does not make
any distinction between the medium on which the artistic works is executed;
thus even if the said medium is land belonging to another, the artistic work
would subsist; (e) House of Lords in George Hensher Ltd. Vs. Restawile
Upholstery (Lancs) Ltd. [1974] 2 All ER 420 held that copyright subsists
irrespective of whether or not the work has artistic merit and artistic
quality and that artistic merit in the work is irrelevant as a matter of
statutory construction and that evaluation of artistic merit is not a task for
which Judges have any training or general aptitude;

(f) In Lucasfilm Ltd. Vs. Ainsworth [2011] UKSC 39 also it was held that the
fact that a work of architecture is functional design does not disqualify it
from copyright protection; (g) in Meikle Vs. Maufe [1941] 3 All ER 144
CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 11 of 32 it was held that though the building owner is
the owner of the plans prepared by the architect but the architect owns the
copyright in the plan and also the design embodied in the owners building; the
building owner may not therefore reproduce the plans or repeat the design in a
new building without the architect‟s express or implied consent; on the
contrary, the architect is free to repeat the building for another owner; the
question, as has arisen herein, whether the building owner could not, without
breach of copyright, do extensive repairs to the buildings or reconstruct the
building which had been destroyed, was however left unanswered.

10\. During the hearing, it was enquired from senior counsel for plaintiff,
whether not the words "or other act in relation to work" immediately following
the words distortion, mutilation, modification have to be read ejusdem generis
and whether not Section 57 makes only distortion, mutilation and modification
actionable and does not make demolition actionable. It was further enquired,
whether not the act of demolition of a building effaces the building, ceasing
the display of the building as a work and which, vide Explanation to Section
57(1), is an exception to the rights conferred by Section 57.

11\. The senior counsel for ITPO appearing for the defendants in pursuance to
the request contained in the order reproduced above, contended (a) that
Section 57 of the Copyright Act invoking which the present suit has been
filed, only authorizes restraint against damage, distortion, mutilation or
modification of the work or to claim damage and does not provide for the
author of the copyright to seek mandatory injunction for re-creation thereof;
(b) the plaintiff in the present suit has CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 12 of 32
neither claimed the relief of damages nor sought the relief of injunction
against destruction and which in any case could not have been sought since the
building had been demolished prior to institution of the suit. Reference was
made to Mannu Bhandari Vs. Kala Vikas Pictures Pvt. Ltd. ILR (1986) I Delhi
191. It was further argued that Section 57(b) of the Copyright Act confers
rights only in respect of distortion, mutilation or modification of the work
and is not concerned with total destruction of the work when the work ceases
to exist and is not visible. It was argued that complete effacing of the work
of architecture is akin to failure to display a work dealt with in explanation
to Section 57(1) of the Act and which has been held to be not an infringement
of the rights conferred thereunder. It was further argued that Section 57 is
for enabling the architect to either restrain modification or distortion of
the work so as to take away the artistic elements thereof in which the author
has a copyright or to claim damages therefor; however, when the work is
totally removed and is not in public view, the question of the same affecting
the rights of the author does not arise. Attention was invited to P. Ramanatha
Aiyar‟s "Advance Law Lexicon", 3rd Edition, defining „mutilate‟ as something
less than total destruction, to deprive of some essential part. Attention is
also invited to the textbook "Law for Art‟s Sake" authorised by J. Sedfrey S.
Santiago opining that the right is in work‟s integrity and not against
destruction of the work. Reference is also made to „Copinger and Skone James
on Copyright‟ opining that deliberate and complete destruction of original
embodiment of a work is often a controversial issue; while it almost certainly
amounts to a treatment of the work. It is lastly contended that the CS(COMM)
No.3/2018 Page 13 of 32 relief of mandatory injunction also does not qualify
the test of Section 39 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963.

12\. The senior counsel for the plaintiff, in rejoinder has argued that the
demolition of the acclaimed work of the plaintiff is prejudicial to the honour
and reputation of the plaintiff. Attention was also drawn to Section 56 of the
Copyright Act providing for protection of separate rights and Section 59 of
the Act providing that where construction of a building or other structure
which infringes or if completed, would infringe the copyright in some other
work has been commenced, the owner of the copyright would not be entitled to
obtain an injunction to restrain construction of such building or structure or
to order its demolition notwithstanding anything contained in the Specific
Relief Act, 1963.

13\. The senior counsel for ITPO added that there is a difference between the
work of an architect and sculptor and thus, Amar Nath Sehgal supra would not
apply. It was also informed that LPA No.299/2017 preferred by the plaintiff
and which was pending at the time of institution of the suit, upon demolition
of the building had been disposed of as infructuous.

14\. I have considered the respective contentions.

15\. The doubts as to the maintainability of the suit which I had expressed in
the detailed order passed on 5th January, 2018 reproduced above, on further
hearing and further consideration stand affirmed.

16\. However, before I commence setting down my reasons therefor, in deference
to the plaintiff and to the contribution made by the plaintiff in the field of
architecture and the high esteem in which he is held in the eyes of CS(COMM)
No.3/2018 Page 14 of 32 those skilled in the art as well as in the eyes of
those who have over the years been beneficiaries and connoisseurs of his
works, I must state that I fully appreciate the feelings of the plaintiff in
instituting this suit. The profession of an architect, though largely confined
to practicing on a drawing board, is also a profession of pro-creating. The
architect whose drawings transform into brick, mortar, concrete or other
relatively new substances used in construction industry, are thus not mere
creators of drawings and designs but creators of structures / buildings on
land. It is like an art on a canvas. The canvas, without the art, has no or
very little value (in case of land, though of value but of no use in an urban
set up). Art is transformation of thoughts / ideas of the artist into form.
The practitioners of such professions as of an architect or artist, thus give
birth to something tangible and being in love with that is fully
understandable. Their creation is like a child and falling in love with the
child is an emotion which all can understand. When we as Lawyers and Judges,
even without creating anything tangible, take pride in an interpretation of
law which has earlier not existed, the love of artists and architects for what
they have created, and the destruction of which by another is not the norm, is
normal and sudden destruction of their creation is bound to cause pain. We as
Lawyers and Judges are used to our arguments/judgments being not
accepted/overruled but the artists and architects are not used to destruction
of their work of love and pride. Seen in this light, the defendants Union of
India and ITPO did owe a duty to the plaintiff, whose work and creation was
embodied in the building/structure of which they have been beneficiaries, even
if had deemed it necessary, for better utilization of land with changing
times, to demolish the building, to inform the plaintiff in CS(COMM) No.3/2018
Page 15 of 32 advance of the same and explain to him their reasons therefor
and to give an opportunity to the plaintiff to do whatsoever he desired with
the building / structure, before demolishing the same. To that extent, the
defendants Union of India and ITPO have erred in not so caring for the
sentiment of and respecting the plaintiff and his work. However, to quote US
Supreme Court Judge Sonia Sotomayor, "We apply law to facts. We do not apply
feelings to facts."

17\. A work of architecture, when transformed in a building or structure, has
a very different connotation from most other works in which copyright
subsists. [I say most, because there is a raging debate qua right of
purchasers of devices with copyrighted technology embedded in them to opening
up their devices and tinkering with them and which led to Digital Millennium
Copyright Act of United States which criminalises production and dissemination
of technology, devices or services intended to circumvent measures that
control access to copyrighted works, whether or not there is infringement of
copyright, impacting ownership of devices. A classic example is of John Deere
Tractors which come with software locks which prevent farmers from repairing
their tractors with cheaper technologies]. All such other works in which
copyrights subsists, are expressed in mediums which in themselves are of no
value viz. a canvas or a record or tape or paper. A painting or a drawing or a
photograph or a film or an audio recording are on mediums title wherein
invariably vests in the owner of the copyrighted work expressed thereon. So is
a sculpture, unless permanently attached to earth. As distinct therefrom, a
work of architecture translated into a building gets fixed / attached to the
land; a work of CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 16 of 32 architecture cannot be
transformed into a building except on land or immovable property. Such land
may or may not be of the author of the architectural drawing and rather
invariably is not of the author of the architectural drawing. Such land has a
value of its own, even without the building with work of architecture thereon
and often more than the value of the building thereon. While a building or
structure, over the years depreciates in value, the value of the land
appreciates, because no more is being produced. Because the building or the
structure cannot, till now, be separated from the land, the land, once
constructed upon, cannot be dealt with without the building thereon. Such land
by itself is a subject matter of legislation with laws governing it and as per
which the building or structure constructed on land is part of land and
qualifies as land or immoveable property and which laws thus apply also to
buildings/structures constructed on land.

18\. The question which arises is, whether the laws relating to artistic work
of architecture and the copyright therein, expressed on land belonging to
another, can be interpreted without regard to laws relating to land.

19\. As distinct from copyright, which is purely a statutory right and not
even a natural or common law right, right to land/property, is not only a
human and common law right but also a constitutional right and till the year
1978, was also a fundamental right.

20\. The Legislature has enacted Copyright Act only to amend and consolidate
the law relating to copyright and not the law relating to property/land. None
of the provisions thereof can thus be construed as affecting a right in
property/land. Copyright, unlike trade mark, is not a CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page
17 of 32 common law right or a natural right and is purely a creation of
statute. Thus, unless such copyright has roots in the statute, there is no
such right. Reference in this regard can be made to The Chancellors, Masters
and Scholars of the University of Oxford Vs. Rameshwari Photocopy Services
2016 SCC OnLine Del 5128. Further, copyright is not a positive right but an
exclusionary right i.e. a right to prevent others from doing certain things.
Save for what is provided in the statute, there is no other right. Section 16
of the Act expressly provides that no person shall be entitled to copyright or
any similar right in any work, otherwise than under and in accordance with the
provisions of the Act. Thus, unless a right to exclude/prevent the owner of
the land, on which artistic work of architecture is executed, from using his
land as he may desire including by removing the said work of architecture, is
expressly provided, the owner cannot be so excluded in the garb of copyright.

21\. On the contrary qua property/land i.e. immovable property, Supreme Court,
in Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran Vs. Pure Industrial Coke and Chemicals
Ltd. (2007) 8 SCC 705, held (i) that the right to property is now considered
to be not only a constitutional right but also a human right; President John
Adams was quoted "property is surely a right of mankind as real as liberty";
(ii) that property, while ceasing to be a fundamental right, would however be
given express recognition as a legal right, provisions being made in the
Constitution itself that no person shall be deprived of his property save in
accordance with law; (iii) that an owner of land ordinarily would be entitled
to use or develop the same for any purpose, unless there exists certain
regulation in a Statute or Statutory Rules; (iv) that CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page
18 of 32 Regulations contained in such Statute must be interpreted in such a
manner so as to least interfere with right of property of the owner of such
land; (v) that restrictions, that too reasonable ones, are to be made only in
larger public interest; (vi) that the scheme of Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha
Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973 relating to Town Planning should thus be
interpreted as contemplating that a person and owner of land should not
ordinarily be deprived from the use thereof; (vii) that an expropriatory
legislation has to be given a strict construction; (viii) that having regard
to the provisions contained in Article 300-A of the Constitution, even the
State, in exercise of its power of eminent domain, though entitled to
interfere with the right of property of a person by acquiring the same, but
the acquisition must be for a public purpose and a reasonable compensation
therefor must be paid; (ix) that any legislation which has the effect of
depriving a person of his land without his consent, must be strictly construed
and in the absence of any substantive provision contained in a legislation,
owner of a property cannot be refrained from dealing with his property in any
manner he likes. Again, in Karnataka State Financial Corporation Vs. N.
Narasimahaiah (2008) 5 SCC 176, it was held that right to property although no
longer a fundamental right is still a constitutional right and also a human
right and in the absence of any provision either expressly or by necessary
implication depriving a person therefrom, the Court shall not construe a
provision, leaning in favour of such deprivation. Mention may also be made of
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Vs. Darius Shapur Chenai (2005) 7 SCC 627
where also, dealing with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, it
was held that the Act, being an expropriatory legislation, provisions thereof
CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 19 of 32 should be strictly construed as it deprives a
person of his land without his consent. Similarly, in ICICI Bank Ltd. Vs.
Sidco Leathers Ltd. (2006) 10 SCC 452, in the context of interpretation of the
Companies Act, 1956 also, it was held that while enacting a Statute,
Parliament cannot be presumed to have taken away a right in property; right to
property was held to be a constitutional right and it was held that the
Parliament while enacting the Companies Act could not be held to have intended
to deprive the first charge-holder of the valuable right to property and such
valuable right must be held to have been kept preserved. It was further held
that if Parliament while amending the provisions of the Companies Act intended
to take away such a valuable right of the first charge-holder, there is no
reason why it could not have said so explicitly and that deprivation of legal
right existing in favour of a person cannot be presumed in construing the
Statute and in fact it is the other way round and thus, a contrary presumption
shall have to be raised. In Bharat Petroleum Corpn. Ltd. Vs. Maddula
Ratnavalli (2007) 6 SCC 81 it was held (a) that a Statute must be construed
justly; an unjust law is no law at all; (b) that a Statute can never be
exhaustive; the legislature is incapable of contemplating all possible
situations which may arise in future litigation and in myriad circumstances;
the scope is always there for the Court to interpret the law with pragmatism
and consistently with the demands of varying situations; (c) that a
construction placed by the Court on statutory provision has to be meaningful;
(d) that though law and justice are not synonymous terms, they have a close
relationship, since one of the ends of law is to provide order and peace in
society and since order and peace cannot last long, if it is based on
injustice, it follows that a legal system that cannot meet the demands of
justice will not survive long; and, CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 20 of 32

(e) that right of property, though not a fundamental right, nonetheless
remains the constitutional right and expropriatory legislation must be
construed strictly. Finally, mention may be made of a nine Judges‟ Bench
decision in K.S. Puttuswamy Vs. Union of India (2017) 10 SCC 1 holding that
elevating a right to the position of a constitutionally protected right places
it beyond the pale of legislative majorities; when a constitutional right, in
that case, the right to equality or the right to life, assumes the character
of being a part of the basic structure of the Constitution, it assumes
inviolable status: inviolability even in the face of the power of amendment;
ordinary legislation is not beyond the pale of legislative modification; a
statutory right can be modified, curtailed or annulled by a simple enactment
of the legislature; in other words, statutory rights are subject to the
compulsion of legislative majorities; the purpose of infusing a right with a
constitutional element is precisely to provide it a sense of immunity from
popular opinion and, as its reflection, from legislative annulment; to negate
a constitutional right on the ground that there is an available statutory
protection is to invert constitutional theory.

22\. Thus, when the Constitution in Article 300-A mandates that no person
shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law, no law unless
expressly providing for deprivation of property can, by implication be
interpreted as depriving a person of his property.

23\. In recognition of such right to property, though Section 14 of the
Copyright Act confers exclusive right in the owner of the copyright, in the
case of artistic work, to communicate the work to the public and to include
the work in any cinematographic film, in Section 52(1) (s), (t), (u), (v) and
CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 21 of 32 (w) constitutes, making of a photograph of or
display of a work of architecture or inclusion in a cinematograph film of a
work of architecture or a functional drawing of a work of architecture, not
amounting to infringement of copyright so as not to prevent the owner of a
property from letting others see his property and take photographs thereof. To
that extent the Copyright Act discriminates between architectural works and
their authors and other artistic works and in fact any other kind of works
mentioned in the Copyright Act, as also noticed in http://dwo.co.il/Copyright-
architectural-works, relating to legal position in Israel.

24\. The provisions of Section 57 titled "Author‟s special right" providing
that independently of the author‟s copyright and even after the assignment of
the said copyright, the author of a work shall have the right as prescribed
therein, have to be understood in above context. The right so conferred is a
right to claim authorship and the right to restrain or claim of damages in
respect of destruction, mutilation, modification or other act in relation to
such work if such distortion, mutilation, modification or other act would be
prejudicial to his honour or reputation. The Oxford English Dictionary defines
"distortion" as "the twisting or perversion of words so as to give them a
different sense" and "mutilation" as "the effect of rendering a thing
imperfect by causing destruction of one or more of its parts". The words in
Section 57(1)(b) of the Act "or other act in relation to the said work" have
to be read in the context of what follows immediately thereafter i.e.
"....would be prejudicial to his honour or reputation". Thus, other act in
relation to the work within the meaning of Section 57(1)(b) of the Act, has
CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 22 of 32 to be a work which renders the creation of
the author prejudicial to the honour or reputation of the author. The words
distortion, mutilation and modification in Section 57(1)(b) of the Copyright
Act have to be understood as making the work look, appear, be seen, as
something different from what the author had created and in which creation the
honour and reputation of the author vests. The principle is that the work
should not be rendered imperfect, affecting the honour and reputation of the
Architect. However, it is explained that failure to display a work is not
infringement of rights conferred by Section 57, in recognition/acceptance of,
that what cannot be viewed, seen, heard or felt, cannot be imperfect and
cannot affect the honour or reputation of the author. There is a difference
between work itself and one of the embodiments of the work. While distorting
or mutilation or modification of one of the embodiments of the work renders
the work imperfect, prejudicing the honour or reputation of the author,
destruction of the work in its entirety i.e. making it disappear, cannot be,
prejudicial to the honour or reputation of the author. No imperfections can be
found in what cannot be seen, heard or felt. In the case of a performance,
there can be derogatory treatment thereof only if it is played in public or
communicated to the public. However, if there is no performance at all, there
can be no derogation thereof.

25\. The Act does not give any guidance as to what is meant by honour or
reputation of the author nor the test as to what is prejudicial to such honour
or reputation. Reputation means the reputation which the author has carved out
for himself in exercise of his profession. The addition of the word „honour‟
indicates that the author‟s integrity as a human being should not CS(COMM)
No.3/2018 Page 23 of 32 be attacked through derogatory treatment of his work.
Section 57 caters to the need of the creator for protection of his honour and
reputation. Deforming his work is to present him to the public as the creator
of a work not his own, and thus make him subject to criticism for work he has
not done. The destruction of his work does not have this result. The concept
is akin to libel. In the context of architects, whose drawings / designs have
transformed into a building over the land of others, the only rights under
Section 57 of the Act can be to claim to be the architect of that building and
to restrain making of any changes thereto, to make the building appear
something different from what the architect had conceived and to thereafter
also proclaim the concerned architect to be architect of a building which is
very different from what the architect had authored. I like or dislike only a
building/structure which I see. What I don‟t see, I don‟t judge. When a
building is not seen, the question of forming any opinion of the architect
does not arise.

26\. Though during the hearing I had also enquired from the senior counsel for
the plaintiff, whether every building/structure, even if constructed with
computer generated work of architecture qualifies under Section 2(b) of the
Act or only such buildings/structures which have a artistic character or
design and if so, who is to judge whether a building/structure has an artistic
character or design, whether the Heritage Conservation Committee or the Court,
and in which context senior counsel for the plaintiff cited George Hensher
Ltd. supra but on deeper analysis do not find the said question to be relevant
for present purpose and I have proceeded to adjudicate presuming the
architectural work subject matter of CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 24 of 32 present
suit to be having artistic character or design and protection if any thereof
under the Copyright Act.

27\. The special rights of the author of an architectural work cannot be
interpreted as being a restriction on the right to property of the owner of
the land and building and entitling the author to restrain the owner of the
land and building in which the architectural work has been expressed, from
better utilizing his land or building by removing the existing building and
constructing new building on the land. Rights conferred on the owner / author
of a copyright conferred by the Copyright Act have to be necessarily read
harmoniously with rights of others in whom the property / medium in which the
right of the author or owner of the copyright is expressed. Artistic work or
architectural work are not scarce and more can be produced. On the contrary
land is scarce as no more is being produced (Though in recent years land has
also been produced by reclaiming sea). Thus, Section 57(b) has to be
necessarily interpreted as entitling the author / owner of a copyright to only
restrain the owner / occupier of the building from dealing with the work of
architecture in the building to make the building look otherwise than as
designed by the author / architect. The public viewing the building in such
altered form is unlikely to know that the alternation therein is not the work
of the architect to whom the architecture of the building is attributed and
such altered architecture of the building may prejudicially affect the honour
and reputation of the architect. Thus, the embargo is only to making the
copyrighted work look something other than as created and not against effacing
the copyright work. Just like the purchaser of a work of art, copyright
wherein vests in the artist, is entitled CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 25 of 32 not
to display the same, so also the owner of a building, even if an acclaimed
piece of architecture, cannot be restrained from demolishing the same and
making a new building in its place.

28\. The implementation / transformation into a building of the work of
architecture is governed by other laws viz. the laws relating to town
planning, building bye-laws, environmental laws and laws protecting the rights
of owners of adjoining buildings. It is thus not necessary that the building
or the structure constructed is always a true reflection of the drawings or
the designs authored by the architect. Though the architects are expected to
provide the drawings and designs in compliance of such laws but in a given
case, it may not be so and the modifications, which the owners are required to
make in complying with other laws or for other valid reasons, cannot, in my
view, be objected to by the architect. Similarly, it may happen that during
the course of construction, the building bye-laws change, requiring
modifications to be made. Judicial notice can be taken of the comparatively
recent modification in building bye-laws permitting additional height and
additional floor to residential buildings. Judicial notice can similarly be
taken of the recent enhancement in Floor Area Ratio available on land
entitling the owner to construct over additional open land which was earlier
mandatorily required to be left open and/or to add a floor. In my view, such
entitlement of the owner of the land to raise additional construction cannot
be objected to by the architect of the original building on the grounds of
such additions, distortion, mutilation, or modification of his work. The only
relief which perhaps the architect can have in such cases under Section 57 of
the Act is to restrain the owner from claiming the CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 26
of 32 modified work also to be of the architect who had designed the building,
as constructed in the original form.

29\. The requirements of urban planning outweigh the moral rights of an
architect. Similarly, technical reasons to modify the building, economic
reasons justifying modifications to the building and the necessity to obtain
an authorisation to build, all prevail over the moral rights. The architect
cannot demand the intangibility of work because it would violate the right of
ownership and the principles of freedom of commerce. Similarly, the
functionality of the building has to necessarily outweigh the interest of the
architect on the preservation of integrity. Thus, the owner of the building
has full power to dispose it off and to destroy it.

30\. The legal position, in my opinion is put beyond any pale of controversy
by Section 52(1)(x) of the Act. Though Section 14 titled "Meaning of
copyright" of the Act vide sub-Section (c) thereof, in the case of an artistic
work, as the architectural work is, constitutes reproduction of the work in
any material form i.e. construction of a building/structure in accordance with
the architectural drawing, a copyright, meaning that no other building in
reproduction of that architectural work can be constructed but Section 52
titled "Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright" in sub-Section
(1)(x) thereof lists "the reconstruction of a building or structure in
accordance with the architectural drawings or plans by reference to which the
building or structure was originally constructed" meaning that such
reconstruction is not an infringement of copyright. The question of
"reconstruction", even if in accordance with the architectural drawings or
plans by reference to which the building or structure was originally CS(COMM)
No.3/2018 Page 27 of 32 constructed, would arise only if the demolition of the
building constructed in accordance with the architectural drawings or plans
were to be not prohibited by the Act. To hold that such demolition is
prohibited by Section 57(1)(b) of the Act would render otiose Section 52(1)(x)
permitting such reconstruction. It is settled principle of law that no part of
the statute should be read in a manner so as to render another part thereof
redundant or otiose. In the same vein, Section 59, even for infringement of
copyright in work of architecture, by reproduction thereof in another
building, does not permit demolition thereof, obviously because of competing
rights in land/property.

31\. The only judgment which I have been able to find having any similarity to
the question as has arisen here, is of the Athens Court of First Instance
(Section for Injunctive Actions) in Architecture Studio and Architectes
Associes Pour L'environnement Vs. Organisation of Labour Housing (OEK) [2002]
E.C.D.R. 36. In that case, the state-owned company held a competition in which
it invited tenders for submissions of master plans for the Olympic Village and
of building specifications for a pilot village, for 2004 Olympic Games. On
conclusion of the Olympic Games, the village was intended for urban housing
use. The claimants in that case won the first prize in the tender. However,
when the plans were submitted for approval to the relevant Ministry, the
claimants objected and contended that what was submitted was a distortion of
the plan on which they were awarded the first prize and commenced action for
restraining the state- owned agency from making any changes or raising
construction as per the changed plan. The state-owned agency claimed that they
were entitled to amend the plans, since the claimants had surrendered their
moral rights.

CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 28 of 32

While rejecting the claim for interim relief, it was held that the interest of
the claimants in preserving the integrity of their work had to be balanced
against the interests of the owners of the buildings which were the subject of
that work; where there was a convergence of property, in that the same
building embodied both the intellectual property of the author and the
physical property of the building‟s owner, the right of the owner of the
building would override the right of the intellectual property owner. The
moral right was held to be the right to protection of the personal bond of the
author and independent of the property right. I may add that in the said
judgment, on an interpretation of the tender document therein it was also held
that the owner was entitled to intervene and that the claimants had given up
their moral right in the design. Though I had in the present case also called
upon the parties to produce the tender in pursuance to which the plaintiff was
awarded the work and the contract in pursuance to which the building was
constructed, but both counsels informed that with the passage of time, the
same were no longer available.

32\. My research has disclosed that no jurisdiction in the world is
prohibiting demolition of a building or structure constructed in accordance
with the architectural drawings or plans. Under the Copyright Amendment (Moral
Rights) Act 2000 of Australia there is no infringement of the author‟s right
of integrity of authorship if the act complained of is reasonable; the matters
to be taken into account to determine whether an act is reasonable are (a) the
nature of the work; (b) the purpose for which the work is used; (c) the manner
in which the work is used; (d) the context in which the work is used etc. A
change in or the relocation, demolition or CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 29 of 32
destruction of, a building has also been expressly prescribed as not an
infringement of the author‟s right of integrity of authorship in respect of an
artistic work that is affixed to or forms part of the building if before the
demolition is carried out, the author is given a notice to enable the author
to make inter alia record of the work. Similarly Section 120 of the Copyright
Act, 1976 of USA also permits the owner of a building embodying an
architectural work to without the consent of the author or copyright owner of
the architectural work make or authorise the making of alterations to such
building and destroy or authorise the destruction of such building recognising
that a building owner cannot be forced to keep a building or a particular
design feature of a building which may no longer be needed, because another
party owns a copyright to the structure. Mention in this respect may be made
of GUILLOT-VOGT Associates, Inc. VS. Holly & Smith 848 F. Supp. 682 and of
David Phillips Vs. Pembroke Real Estate 459 F.3d 128. My other readings in
this respect are listed below:-

> (a) Moral Rights in the Public Domain, Subramania Bharati, Singapore Journal
> of Legal Studies [2001] 161-195.

> (b) https/aippi.org/news/2013/edition30/Thomas_Widmer.html, relating to
> Switzerland.

> (c) https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=7d5329e4-

> 6329-439e-975b-93da493b298d, relating to France.

> (d) Copyright Protection for Architecture After the Architectural Works
> Copyright Protection Act of 1999, Raphael Winick, Duke Law Journal
> Vol.41:1598.

CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 30 of 32

> (e) The Architectural Works Copyright Protection Act: Analysis of Probable
> Ramifications and Arising Issues, Andrews Pollock, Nebraska Law Review
> Vol.70, Issue 4, Article 5 (1991).

> (f) Javelin Investments, LLC et al Vs. Angella McGinnis and Michael McGinnis
> 2007 WL 781190.

> (g) John Carter, John Swing & John Veronis Vs. Helmsley-

> Spear 71 F.3d.77.

> (h) Chapman Kelley Vs. Chicago Park District 635 F.3d 290.

> (i) Authors, Attribution, and Integrity: Examining Moral Rights in the
> United States: A Report of the Register of Copyrights, United States
> Copyright Office, April 2019.

> (j) Doctrine of Moral Right: A study in the Law of Artists, Authors and
> Creators, Martin A. Roeder, 53 Harv. L. Rev 554 (1940).

> (k) Final Report of Marjut Salokannel & Alain Strowel of the study
> concerning moral rights in the context of exploitation of works through
> digital technology, study commissioned and issued by European Commission‟s
> Internal Market Directorate General.

> (l) World Copyright Law: Protection of Authors‟ Works, Performances,
> Phonograms, Films, Video, Broadcast and Published Editions in National,
> International & Regional Law, Second Edition, by J.A.L. Sterling.

CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 31 of 32

> (m) The Modern Law of Copyright & Designs, 4th Edition, Laddie, Prescott &
> Vitoria.

33\. It is not deemed necessary to deal with Mannu Bhandari supra of this
Court, because the same was concerned with copyright in a novel of which film
rights were also sold, but also because of the subsequent amendments of the
year 1995 and 2012 to Section 57 of the Copyright Act.

34\. I thus do not find any right in the plaintiff as architect of the
building/structure, to, under Section 57 of the Copyright Act, object to the
demolition of the work or to claim any damages for such demolition.

35\. In the absence of any right, the plaintiff has no cause of action for the
suit.

36\. Resultantly, the suit is dismissed.

No costs.

Decree sheet be prepared.

RAJIV SAHAI ENDLAW, J.

MAY 28, 2019 „gsr/bs/pp‟ CS(COMM) No.3/2018 Page 32 of 32

