

Madras High Court

Chatrapathy Shanmugham vs S. Rangarajan on 28 August, 2003

Equivalent citations: 2004 (29) PTC 702 Mad

Author: K Gnanaprakasam

Bench: K Gnanaprakasam

JUDGMENT K. Gnanaprakasam, J.

1\. The suit is one for declaration that the plaintiff is the absolute owner
of the copy right of the play 'Naai Vaal' and for permanent injunction.

2\. The plaint averments are that the plaintiff is the original author of a
play titled 'Naai Vaal', which is his original creation. The script of the
play was approved by the Commissioner of Police, Madras, in his Ref. No. Na.
Ka. 2714/132376/82-83, dated 4-1-1984 and the play was staged at 'Swami
Sankaradas Kalai Arangam, Madras on the asupices of Annai Sathya Nataka
Manram, presented by Vetrivel Kalaikuzhu on 8-3-1984. The plaintiff claims
that he is the absolute owner of the copyright of the said story and the
script. The 1st defendant has produced a Cinematograph film titled 'Ore Oru
Gramathile', in Tamil, directed by the 3rd defendant. It is stated that the
said film is a clear violation of the copyright of the plaintiff's play. The
story of the said film is purported to have been written by the 2nd defendant
and the theme of story of the said film is the same as that of the plaintiff's
play 'Naai Vaal', as may be seen from the approved script of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff came to know of the violation of the copyright of his drama by a
person, who had seen the play and informed the plaintiff and whereupon the
plaintiff had seen the film and came to the conclusion that the defendants
have violated the copyright of the plaintiff. The plaintiff also made a claim
to the collections and earnings made by the defendants from exhibiting the
said film. The plaintiff's notice dated 1-10-1990 was not complied with by the
defendant and hence, the suit.

3\. The 1st defendant, in his written statement, had stated that he is the
producer of the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile', and the certificate for the said
film was issued as early as 7-12-1987 and ever before the said film was
realised, certain writ petitions were filed before this Court, alleging that
the story of the film was against certain sections of the Society and it was
also against the reservation policy, adopted by the Government of India and
Government of Tamilnadu and writ petitioners sought for a ban against the
release of the film and also for the revocation of the Censor Certificate
granted to the film. The defendants contested those writ petitions and the
learned Single Judge of this Court dismissed the writ petitions, but, on
appeal, a Division Bench of this Court allowed the writ petitions and revoked
the Censor Certificate. As against the same, the 1st defendant preferred an
appeal before the Honourable Supreme Court, which by its judgment dated
30-3-1989 set aside the order of the Division Bench and permitted the release
of the film and the film was released all over the State on 19-5-1989. It is
stated that the theme of the film was sensational and due to the controversies
raised by the filing of the writ petitions, the proceedings had attracted wide
publicity during 1988-89. Further, the film was also given a national award by
his Excellency. The President of India and the story of the film and the
controversies raised therein were all published in various newspapers and
magazines and had received wide publicity. Clippings from the film were also
exhibited at that time of presentation of the National Award and they were
also telecast by Doordarshan. In the said circumstances, the plaintiff's claim
that he came to know about the story of the 1st defendants film only in
January 1990 cannot be believed. It is also to be noted that though the
plaintiff claims that he came to know of the film 1990, he had instituted the
suit only in the year 1993. Apart from denying any violation of the
plaintiff's right, the defendants contend that the inordinate delay in filing
the suit would disentitle him from seeking any remedy before this Court. It is
further stated that the film was released all over the State of Tamilnadu on
19-5-1989 and he had also assigned distribution rights and video rights to
various 3rd parties even before the competition of the film. In the said
circumstances, the plaintiff cannot seek the relief of restraint after so many
years and after the exploitation of the film. It is stated that the film 'Ore
Oru Gramathile' was produced by the 1st defendant and the story was written by
the 2nd defendant and the film was directed by the 3rd defendant. The
defendants did not accept that the film is in clear violation of the copyright
of the plaintiff's play. There is absolutely no similarities between the story
of the play 'Naai Vaal' and the story of the film. The story in the film deals
with the life of a lady IAS Officer, who was born in a family of forward
caste. During her service, it was found that her father with the assistance of
a Tahsildar, who was a close family friend had obtained a Community
Certificate as though she belonged to one of the Schedule Caste. When this
fact was found out, she was prosecuted. Though she pleaded to the court that
it was the circumstances and the reservation policy of the Government that
forced/her/her father to obtain a false certificate. She nevertheless accepted
her mistake and was punished by the Court. On the other hand, the plaintiff's
play deals with a boy belonging to a particular community, joining a private
firm after changing his caste and upon being condemned by his father, he
became a priest in a temple, where also he incurred the displeasure of the
trustees of the temple and was forced to quit the job. It is stated that the
script of the 1st defendant and the plaintiff's play would differ in all
material particulars and there is no similarity between the two and the claim
of the plaintiff that the defendants have infringed his copy right has no
basis. It is also stated that there is nothing a common between the plaintiff
play and the film and prayed for dismissal of the suit.

4\. The 2nd defendant filed a separate written statement, adopting the written
statement filed by the 1st defendant, wherein, it is stated that the plaintiff
has not given the comparative table in the plaint as to how the story in the
plaintiff play and the story in the film are one and the same. As the
plaintiff has not furnished such a vital information in the plaint, he is not
entitled to maintain the suit. It is also stated that there can be no
copyright in respect of the theme. The suit is liable to be dismissed on the
ground of delay and latches on the part of the plaintiff.

5\. The 3rd defendant filed a memo, stating that he adopts in toto the written
statement filed by the 1st defendant and prayed for dismissal of the suit.

6\. On the above said pleadings, the following issues were framed: -

(1) Is the plaintiff entitled to a declaration that he is the absolute owner
of the copyright of the play 'Naai Vaal'?

(2) Is the plaintiff entitled to a permanent injunction restraining the
defendants from in any manner infringing the copy right by way of exhibition
and exploitation of the cinematograph film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' as claimed by
the plaintiff?

(3) Is the relief of permanent injunction sought for by the plaintiff barred
by limitation since the suit has not been filed within three years from the
date of release of the film all over the State of Tamilnadu on 19-5-1989?

(4) Is the plaintiff disentitled from seeking the equitable reliefs of
declaration and injunction on account of the fact that the suit had been filed
after an inordinate delay?

(5) Is there any similarity between the script of the plaintiff's play 'Naai
Vaal' an the script of the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' produced by the 1st
defendant?

(6) Is the plaintiff entitled to the relief of rendition of true and correct
accounts of the collections and profits made from the exploitation of the film
'Ore Oru Gramathile'?

(7) What reliefs are the parties entitled to?

7\. The plaintiff had examined 5 witnesses and Exs. P1 to P6 were marked. The
2nd defendant was examined as DW 1 and one more witness was examined as DW 2
and Exs. D1 to D5 were marked. Issue Nos. 1, 2, and 5

8\. The plaintiff's case is that he is the original author of the play 'Naai
Vaal' and the script of the said drama, Ex. P1 was certified by the
Commissioner of Police, Madras, stating that there is nothing objectionable is
the script, by his proceedings dated 4-1-1984. The Commissioner of Police also
gave permission to stage the drama on 8-34984 in 'Swami Sankaradas Kalai
Arangam' under Ex. P2 Ex. P3 is the pamphlet showing the staging of the drama
on 8-3-1984. Ex. P4 is the ticket issued for the drama to be staged on
8-3-1984. The actor P.L. Veerappan and the actress. J. Kamala mentioned in
Ex.P3 were examined as Pws. 4 and 5 in this case. The plaintiff's endeavour is
that he is the author of the play 'Naai Vaal' and the same was duly licensed
by the Commissioner of Police and the same was also staged on 8-3-1984 are
proved by the documents, Exs. P1 to P4. Though the 1st defendant has
questioned the plaintiff's claim in respect of his authorship to the drama,
staging of the same, they are not seriously challenged, during the course of
the evidence and also at that time of argument. It is therefore evident that
the plaintiff is the author of the play 'Naai Vaal' and the Commissioner of
Police, Madras, on 4-1-1984 gave license for staging the drama and the play
was also staged on 8-3-1984 cannot be disputed. The defendants also do not
claim any right in the drama authored by the plaintiff. As such, the plaintiff
is entitled for a declaration that he is the absolute owner of the play, 'Naai
Vaal'. Issue No. (1) is answered in favour of the plaintiff.

9\. With regard to the Issue Nos. 2 and 5, Issue No. 2 has got to be divided
into two parts, viz., (1) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a permanent
injunction, restraining the defendants from in any manner infringing his copy
right to 'Naai Vaal' and (2) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to a permanent
injunction against the defendants from exploitation of the film 'Ore Oru
Gramathile'. As far as the Issue No. 5 is concerned, it is for the plaintiff
to prove that the script in the play 'Naai Vaal' and the script of the film
'Ore Oru Gramathile' are similar.

10\. Now, let us consider, whether the defendants have infringed the copyright
of the plaintiff's play. It is not in dispute that the plaintiff is the author
of the script 'Naai Vaal'. But, whether there is an infringement of the said
script by the defendant is a question to be answered. In order to establish
the same, the plaintiff has to prove that there are similarities between the
play and the film.

11\. Basically the plaintiff has not furnished the similarities in the play
and in the film in the plaint. Thought the plaintiff has filed the script of
his play, he has not chosen to file the script of the film not the plaintiff
has filed any comparative table of the play and the film. But, however, the
defendants have produced Compact Discs (CDs) of the film and they were marked
and Exs. D4 and D5 and two CDs were furnished to the plaintiff also to enable
him and his Advocate to witness the film. In fact, lime was given to the
plaintiff to go through the film before submitting his argument and after the
plaintiff's advocate having accepted that he and his client have seen the
film, arguments, were advanced and heard and the plaintiff has also filed a
written argument, wherein he has enclosed two annexure. Annexure-1 is the gist
of drama and Annexure-2 is the comparative table, showing certain similarities
in the play 'Naai Vaal' and the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile'. PW.1, in his
evidence, tried to point out certain similarities in the script of the drama
and in the film. That in the chief examination, he had stated, "The story
'Naai Vaal' is based on a village. In that village the people arc treated as
slaves. The same story was copied in the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile'. The story
is based on the poems of Bharathiyar, stating that there are no caste. The
defendants have copied the same in their film. In that village, I have shown
some natural calamities taken place which were repeated in the film by the
defendants. I have said that one person prays god to stop the natural
calamities, which was also copied by the defendants in the film. I have also
stated in the drama that the people of the village represent the Government
seeking relief from the natural calamities. The same thing is repeated in the
film by the defendants. I have said that if the people take medicine
facilities available in the Village, it will put them in danger. The same
thing is repeated in the film. I my story, I said that if you do not have
money, you cannot get a job. There same is repeated in the film. Also I have
said in my story about a womaniser in the Village. The same thing is repeated
in the film by the defendants. In my story, I have stated about a person who
narrates to another person about his wife's conduct. The same was also
repeated in the film. I have said in my story that Nature which gives life can
also destroy the life through a child. The same is repeated in the film. My
theme that Children's education is a God's blessing and is better than the
Master's teaching and this was also copied in the film. I have stated in my
story that in mankind casteism is nothing and there is no caste. This was also
repeated in the film. It have said in my story that if somebody dies, he is
only a dead body. That is repeated in the film. I have stated that Government
encourages casteism. The same is repeated in the film. I have said that rate
of casteism is more than the population and this was repeated in the film by
the defendants. There arc rich people in the backward community, which I have
stated in my story was repeated in the film and also that there are poor
people in the forward caste. I have said that Government has to give
employment according to qualification and not based on caste which is repeated
in the film. I have mentioned that the Government has to give job based on the
economic conditions and the same is repeated in the film. I have stated in my
story that principles against Gandhiesm are followed in that Village and the
same was copied by the defendants in the film. I have said that reservations
regarding caste should be removed. This was repeated in the film...I have said
that the Brahmin boy who has obtained the Schedule Caste certificate married a
Schedule Caste girl. The person, who obtained the Schedule Caste Certificate
was appointed in the Public Services and later came to his Village, where he
was received by one of the Villagers... A person, who came to know that the
Brahmin boy has obtained SC Certificate and obtained a job, warned him that he
will face repercussions later. This was repeated in the film. Knowing the
secret that person threatens the Brahmin boy. The persons informs the secret
to the authorities concerned... The authorities takes action against the
Brahmin boy knowing the fact. However, the entire Village including the ladies
support the person, who got employment in the quota of Schedule Caste. The
authorities also after seeing the support from the Villagers exonerated him.
The said sequences are repeated in the film." Thus, he narrated the
similarities in the play and the film. But, nothing of this sort was made in
the plaint.

12\. The 2nd defendant, who was examined as D.W.1, in his evidence, had stated
that he is the film lyricist and story dialogue writer and he has been in the
cine field for more than 44 years and had written more than 10,000 songs. He
got State Award for the best lyricist 4 times and he also got prestigious
Bharathiar Award and Bharathidasan Award and Kalai Mamani Award 30 years back.
He admits that he had written the script of the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' and
the same was produced by the 1st defendant. He would further state that the
theme in the film is a 'common theme', but, basically, he being a Tamil Poet
he wrote that subject for social awareness. He did not take it in the sense of
commercial movie. The theme of the film deals with the reservation policy. He
adds, 'I was provoked not only by the Gujarat problem where it was the demand
of certain public that the reservation should be based on economy and not on
the caste. That was the burning problem here too and incidentally, here my
friend Mr. M.G.R., who was the Chief Minister then also justified that the
reservation should be based on economy. Being a Tamil Poet, I owe a
responsibility to the Society and, therefore, I have taken the said theme for
the movie... I have not seen Chatrapathy Shanmugam, the plaintiff and I do not
know about him. I had no occasion to see the drama written by the plaintiff
during March 1984. There are problems with the Censor Board for the release of
the picture and there were litigations with regard to the release of the
picture, especially with the Censor Board and the matter was taken upto the
Supreme Court. The story of this picture was also published in the Newspapers
and Magazines. Before coming to this Honourable Court, I have gone through the
script of drama 'Naai Vaal'. There were no similarities in the story of the
film and the drama. It is the decision of the Director of the film to the
scenes...There is no similarity of the incident that the children's education
is a god's blessing and not on master's teaching. The criticism with regard to
casteism is common. There is no similarity with regard to reservation of
backwardness on the basis of the caste. This was the burning problem all over
the country. This cannot be treated as similarity because it is know to
everybody. There is no similarity with regard to sequence, story, dialogue,
screen play, character and songs in the picture. He denies that he had copied
the plaintiff' story." As stated in paragraph 4 of the written statement that
the certificate issued by the Censor Board was questioned by way of writ
petitions before this Court and the matter went upto the Supreme Court in C.A.
Nos. 1668 and 1669 of 1988 and-the same was reported in S. Rangarajan v. P.
Jagjivan Ram, , wherein, in paragraph 2 of the judgment, their Lordships
extracted the story of the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' in nutshell and I feel
that the story cannot be stated in a better manner than that it was narrated
by the Supreme Court and in order to appreciate the story in the film, I feel
that it is necessary to extract, what has been stated by the Honourable
Supreme Court, which runs as under: -

"A Brahmin widower, Shankara Sastry, has a talented daughter Gayathri. He
apprehends that she would not be able to get admission to college because she
belongs to a Brahmin community. He seeks advice from his close friend
Devashayam, a Tahsildar. The Tahsildar who otherwise belongs to a very poor
family and whose father was working in a local church responds with gratitude.
He devises a method to help Gayathri because it was through Sastry's father
that he got proper education and rose to become a Tahsildar. He prepares a
false certificate showing Gayathri as Karuppayee belonging to an Adi Dravida
Community and as an orphan. He issues the certificate under the reservation
policy of the Government for the benefit of 'backward communities' identified
on caste consideration. On the basis of the false certificate, Karuppayee gets
admitted to college and enters IAS. Witness to this arrangement is the
brother-in-law of Tahsildar called Anthony who later turn out to be a villain
of the piece. Years later, Karuppayee, who was working in Delhi is sent to a
rural village called Annavayil as a Special Officer for flood relief
operations. Her father, Shankara Sastry happens to work in the same village as
Block Development Officer. However, both of them pretend not to recognise each
other. Karuppayee takes her work seriously and improves the living conditions
of people to such an extent that she is held by them in high esteem. By a
coincidence, after the death of Tahsildar, Anthony comes to live in the same
village and recognises Karuppayee. He starts blackmailing her and threatens to
reveal the fraudulent means by which she got the casts certificate. His
attempt is to extract money from her frequently. One evening when he visits
Karuppayee's house, he is confronted by Shankara Sastry, who puts a halt to
his blackmailing. Later Anthony dies of sudden heart attack, but not before he
informs the Government about the facts relating to Karuppayee. Upon
preliminary enquiry, the Government suspends both Karuppayee and her father
and eventually they are put on trial in the court. The people of the village
resentful of the action taken against Karuppayee rise as one man and
demonstrate before the court in a peaceful manner for her release. They also
send petitions to the Government. Karuppayee and her father admit in the court
the fact of their having obtained the false caste certificate but they
attribute, it to circumstances, resulting by Government reservation policy on
caste basis. They say that they are prepared to undergo any punishment. They
contend that some politicians are exploiting the caste consideration and that
would be detrimental to national integration. They also argue that the
reservation policy should not be based on caste, but, could be on economic
backwardness..." (p. 579) The plaintiff has not given the script of the drama
in the plaint and only in the evidence, he had stated certain things. In the
written argument filed by the plaintiff in Annexure I, he had given some gist
of the drama, stating that:

"The drama is based on a village and the villagers are opposed by the same
village big shots - Songs against Casteism - Bharathiyar song played - Natural
calamity in the village - Villagers reporting grievances to God - Affected
Villagers anticipating drought relief from Government - One man in the village
describe above his wife to another person - A child was unattended by mother
when the child was miserably left on the natural earth - The teacher gives
importance first to God then to Teacher - A person without money should suffer
in this world - The Government Hospital treatment itself cause Danger - A
forward community father felt sorry to his child birth in his community - A
forward Community father became shocked on knowing his child's community is
being changed to backward Community under false Community Certificate - The
lady who is close to false Certificate holder is without her life partner due
to dowry harassment - The false caste certificate holder moves freely with
backward community people belonging to the caste shown in the false
certificate - A person knowing the secret of false certificate holder confirms
that the same person is false certificate holder- That person threatens the
holder that he is going to expose the falsity of the certificate - The
blackmailer continued to threaten the false certificate holder - The
blackmailer exposed the truth of the false certificate to higher authority of
false certificate holder and died as a drunkard - Questioning the religion of
a person, caste-Villagers forgetting Mahatma Gandhi - Government and
Politicians cultivate castism - False certificate holder sys that the caste is
an hindrance for progress of forward community - The same should be destroyed
- False certificate holder was being questioned about the offence committed -
Villagers support the holder of the false certificate - He was found guilty -
The people in that Village Admonish the false certificate holder"

13\. On the above said back ground, now, let us consider, whether there was
any infringement of the copy right of the plaintiff's play 'Naai Vaal' in the
film 'Ore Oru Gramathile'. For that purpose, two things are essential, viz.,
firstly, there must be copy right and secondly, there must be an infringement.

14\. In order to appreciate the case of the plaintiff, we have to see the
meaning of 'Copy Right' and the same is defined under Section 14 of the
Copyright Act, 1957, which states:

"Meaning of Copyright - (1) For the purpose of this Act, 'Copyright' means the
exclusive right subject to the provisions of this Act, to do or authorise the
doing of any of the following acts in respect of a work or any substantial
part thereof, namely:-

(a) in the case of a literary, dramatic or musical work, not being a computer
programme,-

(i) to reproduce the work in any material form including the storing of it in
any medium by electronic means;

(ii) to issue copies of the work to the public not being copies already in
circulation;

(iii) to perform the work in public, or communicate it to the public; (iv) to
make any cinematograph film or sound recording in respect of the work;

(v) to make any translation of the work; (vi) to make any adaptation of the
work;

(vii) to do, in relation to a translation or an adaptation of the work, and of
the acts specified in relation to the work in Sub-clauses (i) to (vi);"

The right claimed by the plaintiff would fall under Section 14(a)(i), i.e.,
"to reproduce the work in any material form" and for which, the plaintiff has
to establish, that there is reproduction of his work in material form. But,
that is not the case of the plaintiff. What all the plaintiff would say is
that there are certain similarities in the theme and also certain portions of
the dialogue. Further, it is not the case of the plaintiff that he had
registered his copyright in the Office of the Registrar of Copyrights, as set
out under Section 44 of the Copy Right Act, 1957. The infringement would
arise, if it satisfies the requirements under Section 51(a) of the Act, which
states, "Copyright in a work shall be deemed to be infringed - (a) when any
person, without a license granted by the owner of the copyright or the
Registrar of Copyrights under this Act or in contravention of the conditions
of a licence so granted or of any condition imposed by a competent authority
under this Act." The Explanation to Section 51 states, "For the purposes of
this section, the reproduction of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic
work in the form of a cinematograph film shall be deemed to be an 'infringing
copy'. In order to claim infringement, the plaintiff has to necessarily prove
that his work has been registered and the same was reproduced as contemplated
under Section 51 of the Act and in the absence of the same, the plaintiff
cannot complain that there is an infringement of his work and the same has got
to be protected or the defendants have got to be restrained from infringing
the copy right of the plaintiff. As such, it is for the plaintiff to prove
whether the script of his drama was reproduced in the film 'Ore Oru
Gramathile'. The plaintiff heavily relies upon Ex. P1, the script of the play
and his evidence to substantiate his case. The plaintiff except his own
statement that the play was staged on 8-3-1984, there was no publication of
the drama. It is also not the case of the plaintiff that the 2nd defendant,
who is the writer of the film had occasion to see the play enacted by the
plaintiff on 8-3-1984. In fact, PW-1, in the cross-examination states; "I am
unable to say whether the 2nd defendant witnessed the play. The suit story was
not published anywhere after it was staged." By these admissions, there is no
material before this court to come to the conclusion that the 2nd defendant
had an occasion to know the script of the plaintiff's play and even the theme
of the plaintiff's play. But, however, PW-1 would further admit that he knows
about the film from 1987 onwards and had deposed that "I read in newspapers
that a writ petition was filed in this Honourable Court to restrain the film
being released because of the policy in the film against the Government. I
heard about the incidents, story and theme of the film published in
newspapers, when the writ was filed in this Honourable Court." This would
indicate that the plaintiff had knowledge about the story of the film in 1987
itself and he had not chosen to take any action upto the filing of the suit in
the year 1992. PW-2, K.A. Mani, speaks to the fact that he saw the play at
Nadigar Sangam and he had also stated that Kavignar Vali has come to see the
play. But, in the cross-examination he would say that the plaintiff had staged
two plays and he does not know the name of the 2nd play and he does not know
the names of the characters in the play 'Naai Vaal' and how the theme of the
play has been developed into a story in the drama. He would further state, "I
did not see the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile'. I did not inform the plaintiff
about the Kavignar Vali's visit to see the play. I have not seen Vaali
earlier. Somebody told me that the person was Kavignar Vaali. I have heard
that Kavignar Valli is a famous play writer. I have told Mr. Swaminathan, an
actor in the play about Vaali's visit." From his evidence, it is clear that he
does not even remember the theme of the play in the drama and he does not know
the other play written by the plaintiff. He admits that he and the plaintiff
have worked together in Ennore Thermal Power Station and he happened to be a
good friend of the plaintiff. But, his evidence about witnessing of the play
by Kavignar Vaali was seen by one Swaminathan, who was not examined and
therefore, the visit of Kavigna Vaali, seeing the drama is only an hearsay and
much credence cannot be given to his evidence.

15\. PW-4, P.L. Veerappan's evidence also does not support the plaintiff's
case that there is an infringement of the plaintiff's script of the drama.
What all he would say is that he acted in the drama on 8-3-1984. PW-5, Kamala
would also speak about her acting in the Brahmin mother character in the drama
'Naai Vaal' and the same was staged on 8-3-1984 and except that there is
nothing to support the case of the plaintiff that the script of his drama was
reproduced in the film.

16\. The basic and essential features, which are necessary to grant the relief
of injunction against a person not to infringe the right of the play, are very
much wanting, in this case. It is the settled position that an infringement of
copyright would arise only when there is substantial reproduction of the
plaintiff's work in the defendant's film. But, however, the law recognises
that reproduction of ideas, system, information, matter in public domain do
not form the subject-matter of infringement. Thus, there cannot be a copyright
in a theme. In our case, the plaintiff alleges only the infringement of
copyright in the theme and, therefore, the same cannot be granted in his
favour. It is also argued that the onus is on the plaintiff to prove that his
work has been copied and there is absolutely no such averments in the plaint,
nor the evidence adduced supported his case.

17\. The learned advocate for the defendants relied upon the case of R.G.
Anand v. Delux Films, to support rather to substantiate his submission. In
that case, it was held that there can be no copy right in an idea, subject-
matter, themes, plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the
copyright in such cases is confined to the form, manner and arrangement and
expression of the idea by the author of the copyrighted work. Where the same
idea is being developed in a different manner, it is manifest that the source
being common, similarities are bound to occur. In the said case, the plaintiff
was an Architect by profession and is also a play writer, dramatist and
producer of stage plays. The subject-matter in that case was the play titled
'Hum Hindustani'. According to him, this play was written by him in Hindi in
1953 and was enacted by him for the first time on 6-2-1954 at Wavell Theatre,
New Delhi under the auspices of the Indian National Theatre. As the play
gained popularity, the defendants 2 and 3 in the said case came to Delhi and
met the plaintiff in his office, where the plaintiff read out and explained
the entire play to the defendants and also discussed the possibility of
filming it and the 2nd defendant did not make any clear commitment, but
promised the plaintiff that he would inform him about his reaction after
reaching Bombay. Thereafter, the plaintiff did not hear anything from him.
Thereafter, in May 1955, the 2nd defendant announced the production of a
motion picture titled 'New Delhi' and the said picture was released in Delhi
in September 1956 and the plaintiff read some comments, in the papers which
gave the impression that the picture was very much like the play 'Hum
Hindustani' and therefore, the plaintiff made a claim that the defendants
dishonestly imitated the same in their film and thus committed an act of
piracy so as to result in violation of the copyright of the plaintiff and the
plaintiff filed the suit for damages and for accounts of the profits earned by
the defendants and a decree for permanent injunction against the defendants
restraining from exhibiting the film. The defendants contested the matter,
contending that the 2nd defendant has taken a clear stand that after having
heard the play, he informed the plaintiff that thought the play might have
been all right for the amateur state it was too inadequate for the purpose of
making a full length commercial motion picture and the theme was only in
respect of provincialism and the same can be used or adopted by anyone in his
own way. The motion picture was quit different from the play 'Hum Hindustani'
both in content, spirit, and climax. The mere fact that there were some
similarities between the film and the play could be explained by the fact that
the idea, viz. Provincialism was the common source of the play as also of the
film and thereby, denied of any violation of the copyright said to have been
committed by him. In paragraph 46 of the judgment, their Lordships have
formulated the followings propositions: -

"(1) There can be no copyright in an idea, subject-matter, themes, plots or
historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is
confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the
author of the copyrighted work.

(2) Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the Courts should determine whether or not. The similarities are
on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyrighted work. If the defendant's work is nothing, but a literal imitation
of the copyrighted work with some variations here are there it would amount to
violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the copy
must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion
that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.

(3) One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there
has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the
viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and
gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy
of the original.

(4) Where the theme is the same but it presented and treated differently so
that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
violation of copyright arises.

(5) Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there
are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to
copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly
incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.

(6) As a violation of copyright amounts to a act of piracy it must be proved
by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the
case law discussed above.

(7) Where, however, the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage
play by a film producer or a Director the task of the plaintiff becomes more
difficult to prove piracy. It is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has
a much broader perspective, wider field and a bigger background where the
defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and
complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has
expressed the idea. Even so, it" the viewer after seeing the film gets a
totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original
play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved." (p. 1627)

18\. Relying upon these propositions, the learned advocate for the defendant
would contend that the defendant's case would come under Clause 4 of the
proposition. It is stated, that the idea may be same, but, when it is being
developed in different manner, it is manifest that some similarities are bound
to occur. The idea came to the mind to the plaintiff that the reservation
policy based on the caste is not proper and the same idea had struck to the
mind of the 2nd defendant also and no one can prevent two or more persons
conceiving one and the same idea. As a matter of fact, that one had thought
about 10 years back may occur to a person of present time in a different form,
fashion and manner and for that matter, it cannot be said that the person born
later has copied the idea of the former person, and, there is no law or
prohibition that what had occurred to a person about 10 years back should not
occur to a person born later. That is how the learned advocate for the
defendants has built up his arguments. He also contended that there is nothing
to show that the script of the plaintiff was taken substantially and also used
in the film produced by the defendants and it is also pointed out that the
theme may be same, but it is presented in a different manner in the film
produced by the defendants and, therefore, it is completely a new work and a
new dimension and hence, the question of violation of copyright docs not at
all arise. After going through the similarities pointed out by the plaintiff
in Annexure-2 given in the written argument submitted by the plaintiff and
also the several dialogues in the film produced by the defendants, the
underlying current of the theme in both the play and in the film is that the
reservation policy based upon the caste is condemnable and objectionable and
should be eradicated. As a matter of fact, the 2nd defendant, DW-1, in his
evidence stated that there was some agitation in Gujarat at that time and,
there was a demand from the public that the reservation should be based on
economy and not on the caste. It is also stated that the then Chief Minister
of Tamilnadu also justified that stand and voiced that the reservation should
be based on economy. Above all, DW-1 had stated that he being the Tamil Poet,
he owe a responsibility to the society and therefore, he had taken the said
theme for the movie. The film also bagged a National Award on 35th National
Film Festival, 1988, Ex.D3, for Social issues, such as, prohibition, women
welfare and child welfare, anti-dowry, abuse, etc. This would clearly indicate
that as far as the theme is concerned, it appears that the same is basically
common or similar or one and the same. As it has been rightly pointed out by
the learned advocate for the defendants that there cannot be a copyright in
respect of the theme and the plaintiff cannot claim that the theme is
violated, copied and followed by the defendants in the film produced by them.
As such, there may be similarities of the theme between the play 'Naai Vaal'
and the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' and in that theme, certain scripts may have
similarities but, it cannot be stated that the script in the defendant's film
are one and the same script in the plaintiff's play. Applying the principles
laid down by the Supreme Court in R.G. Anand's case (supra), I am of the view
that there cannot be any copyright in respect of the theme and therefore, the
plaintiff is not entitled to have a copyright in respect of the theme.

19\. Now, looking at the prayer of the plaintiff that he seeks a declaration
that he is the absolute owner of the copyright of the play titled 'Naai Vaal',
incidentally I should mention that the defendants are not claiming any right
over the play 'Naai Vaal'. As such there cannot be any difficulty at all in
granting a declaration in favour of the plaintiff that he is the absolute
owner of the play 'Naai Vaal'.

20\. As far as the Issue No. 2 is concerned that the plaintiff is also
entitled to permanent injunction to the limited extent that there can be an
order of permanent injunction, restraining the defendants from in any manner
infringing the exhibition and exploitation to the script of the plaintiff's
play 'Naai Vaal', but, the other part of the Issue No. 2 that the defendants
have got to be restrained from exploiting the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' cannot
at all be granted for the reason that the plaintiffs cannot have copyright in
respect of the theme. As such, Issue No. (1) is answered in favour of the
plaintiff and the 1st part of the Issue No. (2) is also answered in favour of
the plaintiff to the extent indicated above and the 2nd part of the Issue No.
(2) is negatived. For the very same reason, the Issue No. (5) is also answered
against the plaintiff. Issue Nos. 3 and 4

21\. Neither the plaintiff nor the defendants have submitted arguments on
these two issues. That apart, in view of my findings that the plaintiff is
entitled to a declaration in respect of his play 'Naai Vaal', these two issues
do not merit any consideration. Issue No. 6

22\. In view of this Court's findings in Issue Nos. 1, 2 and 5, I come to the
conclusion that the defendants arc not liable to render account to the
plaintiff in respect of the collections and profits made from the exploitation
of the film 'Ore Oru Gramathile' and therefore, this issue is answered against
the plaintiff.

23\. In the result, the suit is decreed in part, holding that the plaintiff is
declared as the absolute owner of his play titled 'Naai Vaal' and the
plaintiff is entitled for permanent injunction, restraining the defendants
from in any manner interfering with the plaintiff right for the exhibition of
his play 'Naai Vaal' and in other respects, the suit against the defendants is
dismissed. No costs.

