

Delhi High Court

Super Cassette Industries ... vs Bathla Cassette Industries Pvt. ... on 9
September, 2003

Equivalent citations: 2003 VIIIAD Delhi 572, 107 (2003) DLT 91, 2003 (27) PTC
280 Del, 2004 (1) RAJ 69

Author: M Mudgal

Bench: M Mudgal

JUDGMENT Mukul Mudgal J.

1\. This is an application for interim injunction in a suit asserting rights
under Section 52(1)(j) of the Copyright Act(hereinafter referred to as `the
Act). The plaintiff company is the manufacturer, producer and marketeer of
pre-recorded audio cassettes and other records under the logo T Series. The
plaintiff produced a sound recording under its banner T Series which was inter
alia based on the song `Chalo Dildar Chalo' from the film `Pakeezah' by giving
notice to the original producer Mahal Pictures under Section 52(1)(j) & Rule
21(2) (b) of the Copyright Act. Such a recording is known in the music
business as a version recording and inter-alia involves the singing of a well-
known song by a lesser known singer. The plaintiff gave prescribed royalty of
Rs. 400 for producing 10, 000 copies to the original owner. When the defendant
attempted to produce a version recording of the version recording of the
plaintiff by treading the path carved out by the plaintiff, the plaintiff has
come to this Court for an injunction restraining the defendant from what is
averred to be a copyright violation of its version recording. The dispute in
the present suit inter-alia pertains to a song "Chalo Dildar Chalo' from the
film `Pakeezah', for which the original owners of the musical works were M/s
Mahal Pictures Pvt. Limited. This song forms part of two audio cassettes
produced by the plaintiff called Yadein Vol.I and Yadein Vol.II. The plaintiff
has further averred that it has produced this song under the provisions of
Section 52(1)(j) of the Copyright Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the
`Act') read with Rule 21 of the Copyright Rules, 1958. By the letter dated
10th June, 1986 the plaintiff claims to have paid a sum of Rs. 400/- to Mahal
Pictures the original owner of the musical work `Chalo Dildaar Chalo' for
producing 10, 000 records of Chalo Dildar Chalo. The said letter dated 10th
June, 1986 also stated in para (b) as under:

"(b) We do not propose to make any alteration in or omission from the work
unless such alteration and omissions are necessary for the adaptation of the
work to the record in question."

The audio cassettes are said to have been produced pursuant to the said letter
sent under the provisions of Section 52(i)(j) of the Act and said to carry
such an endorsement on the inlay card. The defendants had offered to purchase
similar rights under Section 52(1)(j) of the Act in respect of the tapes
Yadein Vol. I & II produced by the plaintiff which included the song 'Chalo
Dildar Chalo' from the plaintiffs and had accordingly issued a cheque for Rs.
1, 000/- as 5 per cent royalty prescribed by the Copyright Board for
manufacturing 400 audio cassettes to be sold at Rs. 25/- per cassette.

2\. The defendants' case was that the plaintiffs itself produced a copy and at
best was only protected by the statutory protection failing which the
plaintiff would have been guilty of violation of the copyright of original
work under Section 51 and the plaintiffs could not claim to be an owner of the
original work but nevertheless to avoid any petty disputes the payment was
being made.

3\. On the other hand, the plaintiffs' case is that in re-recording the song
in question the plaintiffs had to engage musicians, singers and music
conductors and to create the original music track of the musical works. It was
further submitted by the plaintiff that in re recording it has used sufficient
independent skill and labour and has therefore, got its own legitimate and
legal rights of copyright in the Record and the musical work so produced. The
record produced was a substantially new arrangement and/or necessary
adaptation of the existing records. The plaintiff's case was that its sound
recording (version recording) would be entitled to a separate sound recording
copyright and the reproduction of the same would require the license and
consent of the owner of the copyright in the version sound recording, i.e.,
the plaintiff. It is Mr. Anand's plea that the defendant is not entitled to
make a recording of a version recording produced by the plaintiff and the
defendant is not entitled to avail of Section 52(1)(j) qua the plaintiff's
recording.

4\. After exchange of correspondence between the parties, the defendant had
filed a suit under Section 60 of the Copyright Act before the District Judge,
Delhi in which a prayer was made for restraining by an injunction the present
plaintiffs (the defendants in that suit) from continuance of any threat by the
plaintiff for the alleged infringement of the copyright in respect of the
titles Yadein Vol., 1 and 2 which contained the song Chalo Dildar Chalo. Both
the counsel, Shri Praveen Anand for the plaintiff, and Shri Ajay Sahni for the
defendant agreed that the song `Chalo Dildar Chalo'', from the film `Pakeezah'
and its incorporation in the plaintiff's Yadein-I would be the basis on which
this application is to be decided.

5\. It is, inter alia, averred in the plaint that by its own labour the
plaintiff has invested large amounts and encouraged new young singeRs. The
plaint therefore prayed for declaration that the plaintiff was the owner and
copyright holder of Section 52(1)(j) version, i.e., Yadein I & II and it
further sought a permanent injunction against the defendants from reproducing
the records and musical works of the plaintiff contained in the works of the
records titled Yadein Vol I & Yadein Vol II.

6\. In reply to the application for injunction, IA 1766 of 1993 which
contained prayers and averments similar to the plaint, the defendant has taken
the plea which were also canvassed during arguments, that the plaintiff itself
having admitted that their production was covered under the statutory defenses
enlisted in Section 52 of the Copyright Act 1957, the same cannot be the
subject matter of protection under the provisions of the Copyright Act as the
plaintiff's sound recording is not an original work. It is further stated that
the alleged re creation of the original music track amounts to an infringement
of the copyright of the original work and that if both the works sound similar
then it is an infringement. The right said to be derived under section 52 of
the Copyright Act pre-supposes the derived product to be an infringement under
Section 51 of the Act and any creation under Section 52 of the Act cannot
claim to be an original work and hence is not entitled to protection. Some
skill and labour is always required to make a copy of the original on behalf
of the plaintiff but as long as the musical work created by the plaintiff
keeps the original work as a model or guide the work so created cannot be said
to be an original work. The statutory defense conferred by Section 52 cannot
be so construed so as to confer on the plaintiff's copy the status of an
original work. The audio cassettes being manufactured by the plaintiff are an
effort to mislead the public by printing the titles as Mukesh Ki Yaaden, Lata
Ki Yaaden and Rafi Ki Yaden with the photographs of these renowned singers by
creating an impression that the songs are sung by such renowned singeRs. In
fact the songs are sung by lesser known singers who are neither Mukesh, nor
Lata Mangeshkar or Asha Bhosle. In the instant case the lyrics are identical
and the tune similar. The plaintiff has not exercised any independent labour
and skill in the said musical work but merely attempted to recreate the
existing work in a manner, which makes it sound to the uninitiated, the songs
sung by the original singer. Consequently, the plaintiffs are guilty of
passing off their work as the original work. Assuming without admitting that
the plaintiffs do have rights under Section 52(i)(j) of the Act, the
defendants also have similar rights to reproduce such work under Section
52(i)(j) and the plaintiff who itself has secured such rights under Section
52(i)(j) cannot be heard to complain when others follow the plaintiff's
method.

7\. The defendants thus in order to counter the claim of the plaintiff for an
injunction that the plaintiff is the owner and the copyright holder of
rerecorded musical work and record made under Section 52(i)(j) of the Act,
submitted that the product of the plaintiff of which protection is sought
cannot be the subject matter of independent protection under the provisions of
the Copyright Act, 1957.

8\. The Defendant's case is that no license having been granted by the
original Copyright owner and the only claim forwarded being under Section
52(i)(j), cannot ipso facto confer any right entitling the plaintiff for
independent protection for its musical works. The defendant has relied upon
Section 13(3)(b) which reads as follows:

"13(3) Copy right shall not subsist-

(a) ....

(b) in any [sound recording] made in respect of a literary, dramatic or
musical work, if in making the [sound recording], copyright in such work has
been infringed.

The above Section 13(3)(b) according to the defendant postulates that the
copyright shall not subsist in any sound recording if in making such a sound
recording, copyright has been infringed. Since 10th May, 1995, not only is the
copyright of the literary and musical work violated but also that of the
performer's right, statutorily recognized since the amendment of 1995.

It is, therefore, submitted by the counsel for the defendant that the
performer's rights and the integrity of the musical work are clearly violated
by the substitution of the principal performer by a lesser known singer and
performers' rights were duly recognized by the 1995 amendment to the Act.

9\. In sum and substance, the defendant's plea is euphemistically
characterized by the learned counsel for the defendant as the defendant
himself being a plagiarist though claiming the protection of Section 52(1)(j)
cannot now prevent anyone else from plagarizing its work under Section
52(1)(j) of the Act. In other words the plaintiff cannot use the Section
52(1)(j) means to derive benefit from a product of another person and yet ride
a high moral horse when the same method is adopted in respect of its own
product.

10\. What needs to be resolved in view of the rival pleas is the nature and
manner of rights which accrue to a musical work created under Section
52(1)(j), the effect of Section 13(3)(b) upon such rights and whether the
plaintiff's work constitutes infringement of the original musical work and in
such a situation whether such work can be said to be entitled to avail of the
protection under Section 52(1)(j). This Court is further required to decide
whether a Section 52(1)(j) product can be considered to be an original musical
work.

11\. The relevant provisions relied upon by the plaintiff are Section 52(1)(j)
of the Act and Rule 21 of the Copy Right Rules, 1958 which read as follows:

"Section 52(1) The following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copy
right, namely ...............

(j) The making of records in respect of any literary, dramatic or musical
work, if____

(i) records recording that work have previously been made by, or with the
license or consent of, the owner of the copyright in the work;

(ii)The person making the records has given the prescribed notice of his
intention to make the records, and has paid in the prescribed manner to the
owner of the copyright in the work royalties in respect of all such records to
be made by him, at the rate fixed by the Copyright Board in this behalf;

Provided that in making the records such person shall not make any alterations
in, or omissions from, the work, unless records recording the work subject to
similar alterations and omissions have been previously made by, or with the
license or consent of, the owner of the copyright or unless such alterations
and omissions are reasonably necessary for the adaptation of the work to the
records in question;"

Rule 21 of the Copyright Rules, 1958 reads as under:

"(1) Any person intending to make records under clause (j) of sub-section (1)
of Section 52 give notice to such intention to the owner of the copyright and
to Copyright Board at least fifteen days in advance of the making of the
records and shall pay to the owner of the copyright, along with the notice,
the amount of royalties due in respect of all records to be made by the rate
fixed by the Copyright Board in this behalf.

2\. Such notice shall contain the following information, namely:-

(a) The particulars of the work in respect of which records are to be made;

(b) Alterations and omissions, if any, which are proposed to be made for the
adaptation of the work to the records;

(c) The name, address and nationality of the owner of the Copyright in the
work;

(d) Particulars of the records made previously recording the work;

(e) the number of records intended to be made; and

(f) The amount paid to the owner of the copyright in the work by way of
royalties and the manner of payment."

In 1995 the Act and the Rules were amended and the amended Section 52(1)(j)
and Rule 21 reads as follows:-

"Section 52(1) The following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copy
right, namely ...............

(j) The making of sound recordings in respect of any literary, dramatic or
musical work, if____

(iii)Sound recordings of that work have been made by or with license or
consent or the owner, of the right in the work;

(iv)The person making the sound recordings has given a notice of his intention
to make the sound recordings, has provided copies of all covers or labels with
which the sound recordings are to be sold, and has paid in the prescribed
manner to the owner of the rights in the work royalties in respect of all such
recordings to be made by him, at the rate fixed by the Copyright Board in this
behalf;

Provided that __

(i) no alterations shall be made which have not been made previously by or
with the consent of the owner of rights, or which are not reasonably necessary
for the adaptation of the work for the purpose of making the sound recordings;

(ii) the sound recordings shall not be issued in any form of packaging or with
any label which is likely to mislead or confuse the public as to their
identity;

(iii) no such recording shall be made until the expiration of two calendar
years after the end of the year in which the first recording of the work was
made; and

(iv) the person making such sound recordings shall allow the owner of rights
or his duly authorized agent or representative to inspect all records and
books of account relating to such sound recording;

Rule 21 of the Copyright Rules, 1958 amended in 1995 reads as under:

"(1) Any person intending to make records under clause (j) of sub-section (1)
of Section 52 give notice to such intention to the owner of the copyright and
to Copyright Board at least fifteen days in advance of the making of the
records and shall pay to the owner of the copyright, along with the notice,
the amount of royalties due in respect of all records to be made by the rate
fixed by the Copyright Board in this behalf.

2\. Such notice shall contain the following information, namely:-

(a) The particulars of the work in respect of which records are to be made;

(b) Alterations and omissions, if any, which are proposed to be made for the
adaptation of the work to the records;

(c) The name, address and nationality of the owner of the Copyright in the
work;

(d) Particulars of the records made previously recording the work;

(e) the number of records intended to be made; and

(f) The amount paid to the owner of the copyright in the work by way of
royalties and the manner of payment."

12\. The dispute involved in the present suit thus necessarily involves the
consideration of proviso to Section 52(1)(j) of the Act which reads as under:

"Provided that in making the records such person shall not make any
alterations in, or omissions from, the work, unless recording the work subject
to similar alterations and omissions have been previously made by, or with the
license consent of the owner of the copyright on unless such alterations and
omissions are reasonably necessary for the adaptation of the work to the
records in question."

13\. It is significant that the plaintiff has itself averred in the plaint
that in re-recording sufficient independent skill and labour was utilized and
the Plaintiff's product was a substantially new arrangement and/or necessary
adaptation of the existing record which inter alia involved engaging of
musicians singers and music conductors and creation of the original track of
the musical works. The relevant averments in the plaint read as under:

"6. That while making the said records under section 52(1)(j) of the Copyright
Act, the plaintiff company engages musicians, singers and musical conductors,
etc. And re-record-create the original music track of the musical works. The
singers sing the songs and after proper mixing, etc. and the original plate is
made."

...................

...................

"8. That the rights of the plaintiff company thus have a due recognition and
acceptance of law and, in fact, flow from the operation of the statute. The
plaintiff company in this way invests large amounts as it engages singers,
musicians, music conductors and composers and consequently incurs producing
and advertising expenses and before the cassettes are put for sale as the
goods produced, on re recorded records by the plaintiff

9\. The plaintiff has used the existing subject matter and in re recording the
same has used the employed sufficient independent skill and labour to get his
own legitimate and legal rights of the Copyright in Record and Musical Works
recorded in all such records. The plaintiff is hereby filing receipts from the
singers and music directors who have rendered their services for the creation
of the titles 'YAADEN VLUME 1 AND YAADEN VOLUME 2' and the same are annexed
hereto and marked as Annexure III( collectively) to this plaint.

That the record produced by the plaintiff is substantially new arrangement
and/or necessary adaptation of the existing record - musical work. This, by
itself, gives a right which cannot be infringed by others including the
defendants by trying to reproduce the work of the plaintiff, which the
plaintiff have produced in accordance with the provisions of the Copyright
Act."

14\. The above averments indicate that the plaintiff's record has been averred
to be a substantially new arrangement. The question which therefore requires
determination is whether a substantially new arrangement and/or adaptation of
an existing work can fall within the phrase `alteration' and `omissions' which
are reasonably necessary for the adaptation of the record in question as per
the requirement of the proviso to Section 52(1)(j).

15\. Rule 21(2)(b) is relevant and indeed significant and requires a person
acting under Section 52(1) to indicate clearly in the notice to the original
owner by specifying the alterations and omissions, if any, which are proposed
to be made for the adaptation.

16\. The notice relied upon by the plaintiff dated 10th June 1986 which is
avowedly a notice under Section 52(1)(j) of the Act read with Rule 21 of the
Copyrights Rules states as under:

"Dear Sir, In accordance with the provisions of Section 52(i)(j) of the
Copyright Act, 1957 read with Rule 21 of the Copyright Rules 1959 please take
notice that we intend to make for world wide sales and commercial, records
featuring the following musical work (vocal/instrumental) of which you are to
the best of our knowledge and as per information received from the Gramophone
Co. of India Ltd. , Calcutta, owners of Copyright:

a) Particulars of the work in respect of which records are to be made:

Work Film Music CHALO DIL DAR CHALO PAKEEJAH GULAM MOAMMED The records
recording above works have previously been made by you.

b) We do not propose to make any alterations in or omissions from the work
unless such alterations and omissions are reasonably necessary for the
adaptations of the work to the record in question.

c) Name, address and nationality of the owner of the Copyright in the work.

M/s Mahal Pictures (P) Ltd. , Kamalistan, Andheri East, Bombay-69, Indian

d) Particulars of the records made previously recording the work.

Record No. Year of Publication NOCE 4121 1972

e) We intend to make 10, 000 records of the above stated musical work. Please
note that each work will form 1(s) of the records.

f) We are enclosing a cheque No. 757773 dated 10.6.86 for Rs. 400/- by way of
registry for the making of the said records in accordance with the rates fixed
by the Copyright Board.

A copy of this letter is being sent to the Copyright Board. Kindly acknowledge
and send your stamped receipt for our records."

17\. It is thus evident that there is no compliance of Rule 21(2)(b) as no
alteration in, or omission to, the work is specified except for a bare
averment that the alterations, if any, will only be made if they are
reasonably necessary for the adaptation of the work to the record in question.
Thus on the one hand the plaintiff avers in the plaint that a substantially
new arrangement has come into being, yet on the other hand it fails to specify
in the notice dated 10th June 1986 given under Section 52(1)(j) and Rule 21
(2) (b) such alterations to the original work leading to what is averred to be
a substantially new arrangement even though it is statutorily mandated by Rule
21(2)(b). Since, admittedly no consent of the original owner has been taken to
produce what is averred in the plaint itself to be substantially a new
arrangement, the proviso to Section 52(i)(j) is not satisfied and even Rule
21(2)(b) has clearly not been complied with. Even if the plaintiff is assumed
to be right in averring that the alterations in, and omissions from, the
original recording led to a substantially new arrangement, a substantially new
arrangement then can not be without the original owner's consent as the word
'substantial' can not fall within such alterations/omissions which are
necessary for adaptation.

18\. Thus even even according to the case set up by the plaintiff, two
conclusions emerge:-

(i) The plaintiff's work as averred in the plaint is a substantially new
arrangement and, therefore, the alteration is not such as could be done by the
plaintiff without the prior consent contemplated by Section 52(i)(j).

(ii) In any case since admittedly there is no consent of the original owner,
nor specification of the alteration under Rule 21 (2) (b), then the alteration
can only be such which is reasonably necessary for adaptation of such work.
The plaintiff did not specify the change and identity of the singer under its
notice given under Rule 21(2)(b). Since the plaintiff has failed to specify
the alteration under Rule 21(2)(b), it in any event can not take any benefit
of Section 52(i)(j).

19\. In my view if the plaintiff's plea that a version recording is an
independent sound recording entitled to an independent copyright is accepted,
then a curious situation would emerge. The defendant in the present case has
not indicated that it is producing any product different from the product of
the plaintiff, i.e., by engaging new musicians and orchestra.

20\. However, if the defendant has not made any alteration/modification as
required to be indicated under Rule 21 (2) (b), he is not required to take
permission of the original owner, presumably the plaintiff, under the proviso
to Section 52(1)(j). If even according to the plaintiff a person who does not
make any modification/alteration to the original work is producing an
infringing copy as averred by the plaintiff, by merely reproducing the
plaintiff's work, can it be said that through the original owner whose work
has led to the plaintiff's work, the plaintiffs acquires a legal title,
capable of an independent assertion? On the plaintiff's analogy, it
notwithstanding Section 52(1)(j), a reproduction of the plaintiff's recording
is an infringement by the defendant, then the plaintiff's similar sounding
version is also an infringement of the original record not entitled to a
protection which culminates in an enforceable right by relying on Section
52(1)(j) of the Act.

21\. It is not in dispute that alterations have been made by the plaintiff in
producing its sound recording. The plaintiff has sought to bring the
alternations and omissions within the ambit of reasonable necessity for
adaptation of the work in question without specifying them under Rule 21 (2)
(b). The primary alteration in the present case comprises of a singer
different from the original singer. A different orchestra is also involved.
The aforesaid changes have been sought to be brought under the alterations
reasonably necessary for adaptation of the work. In my view a change of a
singer in particular is an alteration which cannot be said to be reasonably
necessary for the adaptation of the original work to produce the sound
recordings of the plaintiff. In my view while the sound recording of the
plaintiff may sound similar to the original version and the difference may
appear insignificant and indeed negligible to the lay public, nevertheless to
the owner of the copyright such alternation is of vital significance and
indeed affects the integrity of his product and what is contemplated by
reasonable necessity for the adaptation of a work postulated by proviso to
Section 52 may at best be technical reasons for adaptation and not a change as
significant as a change of the singer itself. For example a recording
originally made in 1950 in a mono phormat may be altered and adapted to a
stereo recording or there may be digital re-mastering of tracks. A change of
the singer in a vocal rendering is a change in the most vital constituent of a
recorded song and cannot be done without the previous permission of the owner
of the original recording as per the mandate of Section 52(1)(j) of the Act.
The voice is the soul and essence of a vocal rendering in a sound recording.
Invariably the vocal performance is remembered not only by the melody but also
by the identity of the singer. In my view such alterations fall under the
proviso to Section 52(1)(j). To construe the above proviso to be giving an
avenue to version recordings which involves the change of singer and/or
orchestra without consent of the original owner, would definitely amount to
encouraging and putting a premium on in what my view is a blatant and an ill
concealed attempt to plagiarize under the misconstrued interpretation of
Section 52(1)(j).

22\. Thus Section 52(i)(j) must, therefore, be interpreted to mean as follows:

(a) If a sound recording under Section 52(i)(j) is to be made there should be
prior consent of the owner when a change as significant as the change of the
singer is being contemplated. This is clearly indicated by the fact that the
integrity of the original sound recording in question which is a vocal
rendering is clearly affected by the substitution of the singer. Such a change
may not be discernible to a lay listener as is indeed the finding after
listening to and comparing the plaintiff's tape and the original work. However
to the owner of the sound recording, the vital substitution of the singer is
clearly a change which cannot fall within a change necessary for adaptation of
the work as neither a change has been made by the original owner of the work
nor has permission been granted for the plaintiff's adaptation by the original
owner.

b) In case the prior consent of the owner is not forthcoming for such changes,
a sound recording under Section 52(i)(j) can not be made in law and in any
case even if made acquires no legally enforceable rights.

c) Even proceeding on the assumption that Section 52(1)(j) was complied by and
available to the plaintiff, such a recording is at the highest only entitled
to protection against an action by the original owner averring copyright
infringement. Such a version recording produced under Section 52(1)(j) cannot
in any event acquire independent rights capable of assertion against other
alleged infringeRs.

23\. It is instructive to note the physical appearance of the cover of the
audio cassette produced by the plaintiff. The cover clearly shows that while
Section 52 and the word : Swar - Vipin Sachdeva and Vandana Vajpayee is
mentioned at the bottom of the inlay card, yet the fleeting glance to an
intending purchaser may convey an impression as if the songs are old hit songs
from the film mentioned above. `Swar' is a Hindi word which means a musical
note. It is occasionally, and in particular, in radio announcements used to
describe the voice of a singer meaning that it is sung by a particular singer.

24\. Two versions of audiotapes were handed over to the Court. One the
original work(marked as C1) and the other what was averred to be a Section
52(1)(j) derivative produced by the plaintiff(marked as C2). On comparing the
two songs the similarity in both form and content is striking. In fact there
is no attempt even to disguise the fact that the version recording is almost a
duplication of the original.

25\. Upon hearing the two audio cassettes, one of the plaintiff, and the other
the original soundtrack of Pakeezah, the following findings emerge:-

(a) The musical arrangement of notes is the same.

(b) The orchestral accompaniment and the cue pieces are also the same.

(c) To the uninitiated ear the songs are identical and may convey the
impression that both the original and the plaintiff's version are from the
original soundtrack.

(d) The differences in the two sound tracks are negligible.

(e) The plaintiff's musical work is indeed a fairly accurate copy of the
original soundtrack of the film, 'Pakeezah'.

26\. This case thus involves the legality and efficacy of what are termed
popularly as version recordings. In essence, a famous and popular song by a
known playback singer from a hit film is sung by another singer who may not be
as well known. The name of the film, the words of the song and indeed the
melody remains the same. Even the orchestral arrangement in support of the
vocal rendition does not vary appreciably.

27\. In other words the plea of the plaintiff and oddly enough the defendant
to some extent, in the present case is that a close imitation of an existing
recording using alternate performers is not a copyright infringement.
Sustenance for such action is sought to be derived from the Section 52(1)(j)
of the Copyright Act.

28\. On the other hand, the defendant has contended that the purported
reliance on Section 52(1)(j) is a mere subterfuge and the said Section cannot
be construed so as to permit flagrant violation of the Copyright of the
original performer. The defendant has thus contended that the plaintiff who
has sought to utilize Section 52(1)(j) cannot be heard to complain when some
one else applies the same methodology to the plaintiff's works by averring
that a substantially new arrangement has come into being, because if the
arrangement is substantially new, as averred in the plaint, the proviso to
Section 52(1)(j) and Rule 21 (2) (b) are clearly violated.

29\. Consequently the questions which arise in order to determine the plea of
the defendant that the plaintiff's sound recording is not entitled to
protection are :-

(i)Whether the plaintiff's version which specifically states that it is
recorded under Section 52(1)(j) runs foul of the mandate of Section 13(3)(b).

(ii)Whether in such an event such a version recording by the plaintiff is
legal.

(iii)Even if the plaintiff's work is legal under Section 52(1)(j) can the
plaintiff set up any claim under Section 52(1)(j) of the Act in respect of its
sound recording recording by another party such as the defendant.

30\. Reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the plaintiff on the
judgment of Karnataka High Court in MFA 5491 of 1998 dated 31st August, 1999
which went up in appeal to the Supreme Court (CA 6122 of 2001). Since the
Hon'ble Supreme Court has set aside the Order made by the Karnataka High Court
by its judgment dated 3rd September, 2001 and remanded back the matter, it is
not necessary to consider the impact of the above decision.

31\. The learned counsel for the plaintiff has also sought to rely on the
methodology of the distribution of royalties. In my view the distribution of
royalties does not have any bearing on the issue involved in the present case.
Reliance has also been sought to be placed on the statutory license as cited
in World Intellectual Property Organization, Geneva (WIPO) Glossary of terms
of the Law of Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. The relevant passage reads as
under:-

" Sometimes referred to as a "legal license, " the statutory license is an
authorization given by law to use a work protected by copyright in a specific
manner and under certain conditions, against payment of an author's fee. The
Berne Convention allows national legislations to introduce statutory licenses
for broadcasting the work in a way that does not affect the moral rights of
the author, and against equitable remuneration (Art. 11 bids (2) and (3)); the
possibility of introducing statutory licenses is also covered by the Berne
Convention in respect of reproduction in certain special cases (Art. 9 (2))
and recording of musical works (Art. 13 (1)), subject to specified
conditions."

The above passage indicates clearly that the Berne Convention did allow
National Legislations to introduce statutory licenses such as Section 52(1)(j)
of the Indian Copyright Act. However, the interpretation sought to be put on
the said Section 52(1)(j) permitting statutory licensing by the plaintiff will
definitely affect the moral rights of the author i.e., the owner of the
original work. Thus the above passage does not come to the aid of the
plaintiff. Further reliance is placed by the learned counsel for the plaintiff
on the following passage in the Modern Law of Copyright and Designs (2nd Edn.)
published by Butterworths:-

"Whether piratical work may be copyright 2.147. A question concerning which
there is a reported divergence of judicial opinion is whether and to what
extent a work, made in breach of copyright, may itself enjoy copyright
protection. Of course, a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work to the
extent that it is a mere piracy enjoys no copyright protection, for it lacks
the essential requirement of originality. Assume, however, that as well as
copying from some antecedent work the author has bestowed further labour or
skill in creating his version. An obvious example would be an unauthorised
translation into a foreign language. It is submitted that since according to
the Act the work is copyright and the worst that can happen is that the
copyright is unenforceable the right answer is that our author does enjoy a
copyright, but he must make terms with the owner of the antecedent work, or
wait until the copyright therein expires, before he may exploit it. Although
it may be that his copyright is unenforceable while this state of affairs
lasts, it is submitted that the better view is that he is entitled to prevent
others from pirating it, subject to his obligation to account to the original
author for a due portion of any damages, profits or royalties gained thereby.
This is because, while it undoubtedly is the policy of the act to protect the
original author, and to secure to him the benefit of any enrichment unjustly
made by the piracy of his work, once that object has been attained it is not
necessary to go further and penalise the derivative author by letting third
party pirates (or, for that matter, the original author) enjoy the fruits of
his labouRs.

Illustration (1) A translator hopes to persuade a foreign author to let him
translate his latest novel into English with a view to publication. He
translates a chapter and submits it as an unsolicited sample of his
workmanship. The foreign author refuses the offer but subsequently relents and
the translated work is duly published. It is submitted that it would be absurd
to say that the translator is not entitled to enjoy any copyright in the
chapter in question on the ground that its translation was an act of
infringement at the time when it was made. (As it probably was, since at that
stage he had no license to make it).

(2) An author licenses a playwright to dramatise his novel and to perform it
on the stage for ten yeaRs. After the ten years have expired a third party
pirates the play. It is submitted that our playwright is well entitled to
apply for an injunction to stop this, even though, he is no longer authorised
to exploit his own work himself.

(3) If the facts are the same as in the previous illustration but the
plaintiff is too late to get in injunction, but only receives an award of
damages, it is submitted that the right result should be as follows. Since the
plaintiff had no right to exploit his work himself he cannot claim damages on
the basis of lost business, and so must claim on the basis of a notional
royalty. But the amount of the royalty would reflect the fact that the pirate
needed another license - from the original author. It would therefore be less
than in the case of an undominated work. If, for any reason, the court awarded
him more, he would be obliged to account for the balance.

Further, if it is possible to sever his work into two parts, the one
piratical, the other all his own, there would seem to be no reason why an
author should not be able to protect the latter at once, provided it has
sufficient originality to qualify. "

The above passage and the illustration therein would not apply to the present
case because it is not possible to sever the song in question into the
piratical and the original particularly when the originality claimed is only
cosmetic and in any event the conditions of Section 52(1)(j) have not been
satisfied. Furthermore the above passage relied upon by the plaintiff clearly
states that a mere pirated work which lacks originality does not enjoy
copyright protection. Thus it is clear that since a finding that the
plaintiff's product lacks originality has been arrived at, the above passage
does not help the plaintiff's cause but in fact supports the defendant's plea.

32\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has also referred to the following
passage in the Butterworths 4th Edn., of User's Guide to Copyright for
sustaining his plea that a copyright exists in sound recordings distinguished
from copyright in underlying material:-

"PART II : THE RECORD BUSINESS 21.18 Copyright in recordings distinguished
from copyright in underlying material As already stated in the first part of
this chapter, in order to comprehend how copyright applies to music, it is
essential to appreciate that there is quite separate copyright in a sound
recording from the material which is recorded, whether or not such material is
music, drama, poetry, etc. The record producer must therefore acquire a
license to record that material (except material in the public domain like
folk songs). A new copyright will arise in the recording itself. When, for
example, a composer who is also a performer, records a new song which he has
not previously written down or recorded, then simultaneously two new
copyrights come into existence - the copyright in the song and the copyright
in the sound recording. Note that the copyright vests in the sound recording
and not in the record itself.

See paragraph 21.02 for the definition of a sound recording.

When a record producer makes a recording of a song which has already been
recorded, written or otherwise reduced to material form, so that there is
already copyright in it, a new copyright is created in the recording itself.

However, the performance itself is protected as a performer's right which,
although similar, is not identical to copyright. The performer must seek
protection for his performance under the provisions of the Act relating to
performers - see chapter 12 - and not under the law of copyright. "

"21.22 The Statutory license Section 8 of the Copyright Act 1956 provided that
after the owner of the copyright in a musical work had permitted records of it
to be made in, or to be imported into, the United Kingdom for retail sale,
then subject to compliance with certain conditions, anyone else could make
recordings of that work for retail sale. Certain conditions had to be complied
with including the payment by the manufacturer of a royalty of 6.25% of the
ordinary sales price of a record.

21.23. Mechanical royalties With the repeal of the 1956 Act and with no
provision for a statutory license in the 1988 Act, the position of the record
companies vis-a-vis the music publishers is like that of all other copyright
users - they must negotiate licenses for the use of the right to record the
music and issue copies of the recordings. However, the Copyright Tribunal has
jurisdiction in cases where the parties are unable to agree upon a licensing
scheme. The MCPS licenses are subject to the Copyright Tribunal not only in
respect of mechanical recording licensing, but also in respect of all other
licenses such as broadcasting mechanicals."

Thus it would be seen from the above passage that even in U.K., the current
trend indicated by the 1988 Act indicates that statutory licensing is no
longer available. In the present case it is not a new song which the plaintiff
has recorded and furthermore there is no copyright in it due to non-compliance
of Section 52(1)(j) and Rule 21 (2) (b). Thus the above passage also does not
assist the case set up by the plaintiff.

33\. The counsel for the plaintiff, Shri Praveen Anand has also relied on the
following passage from the Political Economy of Innovation by Martinus Nijhoff
Publishers which reads as follows:-

"Innovation and market power To invent is to find a new thing; to innovate is
to get the new thing done. In all but the exact form of words, the definition
is Joseph Schumpeter's, and it was he who also first called attention to the
way in which the difference between the two functions is even reflected in the
sociological and psychological types: Some people are good at producing ideas
but less good at turning them into concrete realities, whereas others are
noted for their ability to carry into practical effect, ideas which they have
not originated themselves. Both activities, as discussed in Innovation, are
most intelligible as related aspects of human creative activity, but this
leads to a further important distinction : Creativity on its own can give us
Invention and Art almost irrespective of material circumstances. One has only
to thing of the poverty out of which Clarence Goodyear produced vulcanized
rubber, or that of Schubert in Vienna, making music worth more than all the
gold of all the Hapsburgs, to realize this.

But economic innovation (getting new things done when the innovator needs to
mobilize resources other than his own) involves dependence upon the
environment. If that environment is altogether hostile, there can be no
innovation at all. What kind of innovation, and how much of it there will be,
depends upon how supportive of innovators, and in what ways, the environment
is. Since the economic environment is shaped by political activity, we can
properly speak of the political economy of the particular kind of creativity
that goes into economic innovation. Politics and political institutions cannot
fail to affect any kind of 'getting new things done', or turning ideas into
concrete realities, which has an economic dimension. Like all political
economy, of course, the special political economy of innovation relates only
to countries where there is a substantial degree of economic freedom, where
economic activity is responsive to demand, and where the economy is not
centrally directed. These are the countries (and it is no coincidence) which
in any event have accounted for the vast bulk of economic innovation. "

Whatever be the contour of economic innovation it cannot be so construed so as
to permit the piracy of the original work. The plaintiff's work has not been
creative but is a deceptive adaptation without compliance with the provisions
of Section 52(1)(j). Thus the above passage relating to Innovation and Market
Power also does not assist the plaintiff.

34\. The learned counsel for the plaintiff has further placed reliance on the
judgment referred to in CBS Records Australia Ltd. & Others v. Telmark
Teleproducts (AUST) Pty Ltd. In my view this judgment proceeds on the
construction of Section 10(3)(c) of the Copyright Act in Australia and in the
absence of the full text of Section 10(3)(c) it is not possible to consider
the applicability of the above judgment.

35\. Reliance has also been placed by Shri Anand on the following passage from
the Chapter 3.15 of the Collective Administration of Copyrights and
Neighbouring Rights, International Practices, Procedures, and Organizations,
published by Little, Brown and Company to contend that the statutory and
compulsory license is known internationally:-

"3.15 STATUtorY AND COMPULSORY LICENSING Potentially the greatest threat to
the integrity of the modern system of copyright is the current proliferation
of nonvoluntary licencing schemes. In the delicate balance between users
interested in easy and inexpensive access of copyrighted works and authors
interested in controlling the use of their works and receiving the full
economic value for authorizing their use, non-voluntary licencing schemes
frequently represent political victories by useRs. There are two forms of
nonvoluntary licencing schemes currently in use : compulsory licensing and
statutory licensing.

Compulsory licensing is a statutory scheme "requiring the copyright owner to
grant the necessary authorization [for a user to use his or her work] without
.... depriving him [or her] of his [or her] right to negotiate the terms of
the authorization, with the proviso that the administrative or judicial
authorities (civil courts or special jurisdictions) would fix the amount of
remuneration if no amicable agreement can be reached between the parties."
This scheme is the least intrusive form of nonvoluntary licensing and is, in
fact, compatible with the concept of the collective administration of
copyright.

Statutory licensing is, in essence, the statutory imposition of "a license
under which the protected works can be freely used on condition that the user
pa[y] a fee, fixed by the [statute or by other] competent authority, to the
body designated by that [statute or] authority and distributed in accordance
with the rules established by the latter." While many authorities acknowledge
the possibility that nonvoluntary licensing schemes may be necessary in some
situations, they are not favored. One major problem is that in the absence of
any form of private negotiation it is virtually impossible to determine a
"fair market" value for those copyrighted works.

On an international level, the Berne Convention recognizes four areas in which
nonvoluntary licensing schemes are appropriate : broadcasting rights in
preexisting works; mechanical reproduction (recording) and distribution rights
in previously recorded musical works; the droit de suite in works of art and
manuscript; and the translation, reproduction, and distribution rights or
works in developing countries. In all of these situations Berne requires that
(1) the author's moral rights be protected, (2) the author receive equitable
remuneration for any use, and (3) the license be limited to the territory of
the country implementing said scheme. Although it appears in reading these
articles that both statutory and compulsory licensing schemes may be
implemented under these provisions, it can be argued that the Convention only
contemplates some form of compulsory licensing.

The UCC (1971) requires member countries to "accord a reasonable degree of
effective protection to each of the author's rights." While it then goes on to
specifically identify permissible nonvoluntary licensing schemes with respect
to translation and distribution in developed countries and translation,
distribution, and reproduction rights in developing countries, the vagueness
of this general requirement has been interpreted to allow many types of
nonvoluntary licensing schemes.

Virtually every country in the world recognizes some form of nonvoluntary
licensing. Among the more prominent types of licenses are those relating to
mechanical reproduction and distribution of musical work, public noncommercial
broadcasting, cable retransmission, home taping, reprographic reproduction,
droit de suite, and public lending. It should be noted that collective rights
organizations are active in all of these areas."

The aforesaid passage would be inapplicable as in Chapter 3.16 of the same
publication, the following observations have been made:-

"3.16 INFRINGEMENT None of the major copyright conventions specifically
addresses issues of infringement or enforcement. Instead resort must be made
to principles of private international copyright law and the law of the
country in which enforcement of the right is sought. While particular issues
of proof and the compliance with formalities vary from country to country, the
international consensus on the subject matter of copyright does provide some
guidance as to what constitutes infringement.

First, copyright protects expression, not ideas. Thus infringement involves
the "copying" or use of an identified work, not just evidence that they are
similar or, even, that the second work has used the same idea as its basis.
While it is clear that a secondary user should not escape liability for
infringement based on that user's making "immaterial variations" in the work,
drawing the line between a permitted use of the ideas and impermissible use of
expression is largely a question of fact.

Obviously an infringement must involve the misappropriation of a protected
work (i.e., one not in the public domain) and use of that work in
contravention of the exclusive right of copyright conferred by that
jurisdiction. Finally the use must be shown as occurring without statutory
permission or the owner's consent."

It is very clear that in the present case the Chapter 3.16 clearly indicates
that law of the country of the enforcement i.e., India in the present case,
has to be complied with. In my view the above passage clearly states that the
secondary user such as the plaintiff cannot escape liability for infringement
based on making immaterial variations in the original work which finding has
already been arrived at. I have also found that not only is there
misappropriation of the protected work but there is also a contravention of
the exclusive right of the original owner of the original sound recording and
is not with the owner's consent and the statutory permission required under
Section 52(1)(j). Even otherwise the above passage in chapter 3.15 itself
frowns upon the involuntary licensing by stating that potentially it poses the
greatest threat to the modern system of copyright. The above passage also
notes the Berne Convention recognition of the protection of the author's moral
rights. I have already found that the plaintiff's version recording violated
the legal rights and the integrity of the original version which would clearly
affect the moral rights of the original owner. Even UCC (1971) has been
noticed to require the member countries to "accord a reasonable degree of
protection to the author's rights". In my view, the interpretation given in
this judgment to provisions of Section 52(1)(j) gives effective protection to
the author's rights as per the above passage relied upon by the learned
counsel for the plaintiff.

36\. The Hon'ble Supreme Court in Kedar Nath v. Prahlad Rai reported as quoted
with the approval the salutary principle of public policy laid down in 98 ER
1120 as follows:-

"The principle of public policy is this; ex dolo molo non oritur actio. No
Court will lend its aid to a man who founds his cause of action upon an
immoral or an illegal act. If, from the plaintiff's own stating or otherwise,
the cause of action appears to arise ex turpi cassu, or the transgression of
positive law of this country, there the Court says he has no rights to be
assisted. It is upon that ground the Court goes; not for the sake the sake of
the defendant, but because they will not lead their aid to such a
plaintiff......"

Benjamin N. Cardozo in `The Nature of the Judicial Process' observed:

"The final cause of law is the method of sociology. The rule that misses its
aim cannot permanently justify its existence. "Ethical considerations can no
more be excluded from the administrations of justice which is the end and
purpose of all civil laws than one can exclude the vital air from his room and
live." Logic and history and custom have their place. We will shape the law to
conform to them when we may; but only within bounds. The end which the law
serves will dominate them all. There is an old legend that on one occasion God
prayed, and his prayer was "Be it my will that my justice be ruled by my
mercy." That is a prayer which we all need to utter at times when the demon of
formalism temps the intellect with the lure of scientific order."

37\. Thus what is to be determined first in light of the above illuminating
principle of ethics by the Hon'ble Supreme Court and Benjamin Cardozo is
whether the plaintiff's version recording is ethical. Considering all the
findings enumerated in respect of the version recording of the defendant, I
have no manner of doubt that the defendant's plea that the product of the
plaintiff's under the garb of the claimed protection of Section 52(1) is a
misleading copy and indeed the plagiarization of the original soundtrack. Thus
such plagiarization cannot be considered ethical.

38\. Having found the plaintiff's conduct to be unethical in producing this
version recording, it still has to be seen whether such conduct is legal i.e.
whether such conduct enjoys the protection afforded by Section 52(1)(j) and is
not hit by the mandate of Section 13(3)(b). This aspect is being dealt with
independent of the finding about non-compliance of Rule 21 (2) (b) and Section
52(1)(j) and the consequent non-availability of Section 52(1)(j) protection to
the plaintiff's product.

39\. In this respect the position of law arising from the impact of Section
13, 14 and 51 relating to copyright and its infringement expounded by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court in R.G. Anand v. M/s Delux Films is relevant and reads
as under:

"2. Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is
manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur. In
such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on
fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the
copyrighted work. If the defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation
of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to
violation of the copyright. In other words, in order to be actionable the copy
must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion
that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.

3\. One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there
has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the
viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and
gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy
of the original.

4\. Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so
that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of
violation of copyright arises.

5\. Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there
are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to
copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly
incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.

...........

...........

In another, and perhaps a clearer case, it may be necessary for this court to
interfere and remove the impression which may have gained ground that the
copyright belonging to an author can be readily infringed by making immaterial
changes, introducing insubstantial differences and enlarging the scope of the
original theme so that a veil of apparent dissimilarity is thrown around the
work now produced. The court will look strictly at not only blatant examples
of copying but also at reprehensible attempts at colourable imitation."

40\. The above position of the law laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
applies clearly in the present case because

(a) The plaintiff's work is nothing but a colourable imitation of the original
musical soundtrack of Pakeezah with some minor and insignificant variations.

(b) A lay listener though not an expert listener, on hearing both the works
will unmistakably get the impression that the plaintiff's work is not
different from the original.

(c) There are no material or broad dissimilarities which negative the
plaintiff's intention to copy the original except the small annotation on the
cover of Section 52 and the two names given in the said annotation

(d) This court should look strictly at such examples of copying.

41\. Even proceeding on the assumption that the plaintiff was entitled to make
a Section 52(1)(j) version, I am of the view that Section 52(1)(j) cannot be
independent of the prohibition imposed in Section 13(3)(b) of the Act and the
plaintiff is thus not entitled to any protection under Section 52(1)(j) as its
version recording violates the mandate of Section 13(3)(b) of the Act.

The seeming contradiction in the defendant's case where on the one hand
substantial alteration contrary to the mandate of Section 52(1)(j) and Rule 21
(b) has been urged in contrast to the assertion that a similar sounding
version recording of the plaintiff derived from the original record is itself
an infringing copy is not so, on closer scrutiny. In so far as Section
52(1)(j), which provides for an involuntary and statutory license is
concerned, it must in law be construed very strictly. The plaintiff's own
assertion in the plaint that substantially a new arrangement led to its
version recording, deny it the benefit of Section 52(1)(j) as the proviso is
not satisfied. In contrast the averred violation by the plaintiff's version of
Section 13(3)(b) of the Act qua the original work has to be construed from the
view point of an average lay listner. Thus there is no contradiction in the
defendant's case.

42\. Version recordings would really be such sound recordings where while
being inspired by the original melody a distinct interpretation, different
both in presentation, rhythm and orchestral arrangement emerges. For example
the famous hits of the pop-group Beatles have been rendered by the Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra under the title `Symphonic Beatles'. The title of the
`Symphonic Beatles' sound recording clearly states as under:-

"Symphonic Beatles' Classic Instrumental Interpretation from The Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by Louis Clark."

This sound recording is an orchestral interpretation of 15 famous hits of the
Beatles. It is this sound recording which can be considered to be a version
recording. While there is no doubt in any listener's mind that he is hearing a
version of say, the well-known Beatles song `Eleanor Rigby', originally sung
by the Beatles, yet it cannot be said for a moment that a listener would be
led to believe that the Beatles are singing it. What is adapted in a version
recording is the original melody, but the beat, the orchestral arrangement and
indeed the end product is what can be called a substantially new arrangement.
In such a version recording while the original melodic arrangement inspires
the new creation yet it is a version unmistakably different and distinct from
the original. Such a version recording, if made in India may enjoy the benefit
of Section 52(1)(j) subject to satisfaction of the requirements of the said
provision and Rule 21 (2) (b) but not a total copy though with different
singers, as in the plaintiff's case, which may have the effect of persuading
lay listeners as if it was the original sound recording. Thus the Royal
Philharmonic Orchestra cannot complain of violation of copyright in case the
Beatle's song `Eleanor Rigby' is sung by some other musician or performed by
some other orchestra, as at best its rights are akin to rights derived from
Section 52(1)(j) of the Act.

43\. For example the bhajan `Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram' which is a part of the
Indian history of independence was originally composed and sung by Pt.
Vishnudigambar Paluskar at Mahatma Gandhi's meetings. The melody of
'Raghupathi Raghav' did figure in the soundtrack of the film `Purab Aur
Paschim'. That does not give any right to the producer of `Purab and Paschim'
soundtrack to claim copyright against others who may record or sing `Raghupati
Raghav Raja Ram'. Similarly a well-known traditional Khyal composition in
Indian classical music in Raag Kalyan 'Main Vaari Vaari Jaoon' has been sung
in the film `Dil Se'. Whatever be the legality and efficacy of such a version,
the adaptation of such a traditional composition by a contemporary
composer/performer does not in law give him any rights capable of being
asserted against other performers who may sing/record the said traditional
composition. Similarly the well-known Meera Bhajan "Payojee Maine Ram Ratan
Dhan Payo" was first recorded by the well-known classical musician, Shri D.V.
Paluskar. It has subsequently been rendered and recorded by current
performeRs. owners and/or right holders of such versions cannot lay any claim
to exclusive rights over their version recording or indeed legitimately claim
to be composer of such traditional melodies.

44\. Thus by taking recourse to the traditional reservoir of Indian Classical
Raags and traditional folk music, compositions based thereon may result in a
sound recording. Such a derivative by a contemporary composer/performer may
not refer to the original source in their sound recording. In such a
situation, the current composer cannot claim exclusive rights to such a sound
recording, which are assertable against any other performer/sound recording
based on such traditional repertoire. Thus no enforceable rights can be
acquired by any contemporary musician in rendering/recording traditional
compositions. Consequently, the traditional repertoire of Indian music which
may not now enjoy copyright protection due to passage of time and being in the
public domain, cannot be appropriated by any individual by virtue of a later
and current sound recording by excluding other performers and/or composeRs.
The tradition of Indian classical and folk music is a valuable public heritage
common to all adherents and cannot be purloined by a contemporary
performer/composer by denying to others the benefit of the same.

45\. In this view of the matter since the plaintiff himself did not have any
rights in law, in what was averred to be his substantially new product, he
cannot be heard to protest when such a modus operandi is sought to be applied
to him by the defendant. Accordingly, prima facie there is no merit in this
injunction application and the application is thus dismissed.

46\. List the suit for directions before the appropriate Court, subject to the
directions by the Hon'ble Judge In-charge, Original Side on 19th September,
2003.

