

Delhi High Court

Khandelwal Laboratories Ltd. vs Fdc Limited on 21 August, 2001

Equivalent citations: 94 (2001) DLT 141

Author: A Sikri

Bench: A Sikri

ORDER A.K. Sikri, J.

1\. The plaintiff is a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act
which is carrying on business, inter alia, of manufacturer and seller of
pharmaceuticals and medicinal preparations. It claims to be a well known
pharmaceutical company enjoying very high reputation for its products because
of excellent quality and efficacy. Total turnover of plaintiff company for the
year 2000-2001 was more than 35 crores. One of its drugs is under the Trade
MarkCEFI. This medicine is used for the treatment of typhoid, lower
Respiratory Tract Infection, urinary Tract Infection and OtIT is Media and
contains cefixime. The plaintiff has filed present suit for permanent
injunction restraining, passing off, delivery of infringing goods, rendition
of accounts etc. against the defendant with the allegations that in relation
to same medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations defendant has adopted the
Trade Mark ZIFI which is phonetically similar to that of plaintiff's Trade
Mark CEFI and, therefore, is bound to cause confusion in the minds of
consumers as they may treat the defendant's goods as that of the plaintiff.
Thus, according to the plaintiff, defendant's Trade Mark ZIFI being similar to
Trade Mark CEFI, sale of medicines under the Trade Mark ZIFI by the defendant
amounts to an act of passing of their goods as that of the plaintiff.

2\. Facts are more or less admitted. It is the case of the plaintiff that in
July, 2000 it conceived and invented the Trade Mark CEFI for its medicinal
preparations. Application for registration of this Trade Mark was submitted to
Trade Mark Registry on 17-8-2000. On 24-11-2000 the Food and Drug
Administration granted permission to the plaintiff to manufacture the drug
cefixime tablets USP 200 mg and cefixime Dispersible Tablets 100 mg and
cefixime for Oral Suspension USP. On 23-4-2001 the plaintiff launched its
preparations under the Trade Mark CEFI and CEFI DT as well as CEFI Dry Syrup.
The plaintiff further claims that it spent huge amount in popularizing its
said product through advertisements etc. and that because of well established
and reputed pharmaceutical concern, the Trade Mark CEFI has also attained high
reputation and goodwill for its products. During April, 2001-July, 2001 the
plaintiff sold their products worth Rs. 1,99,61,290/-. It is further alleged
that on 23-7-2001 plaintiff came across the defendant's product bearing the
trade mark ZIFI-100 DT and ZIFI-200 which also contains cefixime and the two
products being phonetically and deceptively similar to the trade mark CEFI,
present suit is filed.

3\. By order dated 1-8-2001 in IA. 6867/2001, the ex-parte ad-interim
injunction order was granted restraining the defendants from using the trade
mark ZIFI and/or any other trade mark deceptively similar to the plaintiff's
trade mark CEFI in respect of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations. The
defendant, after it was served with the summons in the suit and notice in the
aforesaid injunction application filed IA. 7146/2001 under Order XXXIX Rule 4
CPC for vacation of the said ex-part ad interim injunction granted on 1-8-2001
by alleging that plaintiff had obtained the injunction by making mis-
representation. The opposition of the defendant to the grant of injunction is
founded on the following submissions:

1\. The defendant has a family of trade marks starting with the letter 'Z'
including ZOCON, ZOSPAR, ZO, ZOXAN AND ZEFRICH. The adoption of the trademark
ZIFI is bonafide and not driven by an attempt to copy or take undue advantage
of the plaintiff.

2\. The plaintiff's user is just about two months (i.e. 23rd April, 2001)
prior to the date of institution of the suit. This is about the shortest user
possible in an action for passing off.

3\. The plaintiff's mark CEFI is derived from the Chemical compound or salt
Cefixime and there are umpteen authorities on the proposition that where marks
are derived from such pharmaceutical salts, these are weak trademarks. Here
the plaintiff has taken the first four letters of the name of the salt and
this is therefore a weak trademark [F. Hoffman La Roche Vs. Geoffrey Manners,
1982 PTC 335; Panacea Biotec Vs. Recon 1996 PTC 561].

4\. Even prior to the plaintiff's adoption of the trade mark CEFI, there have
been several other pharmaceutical companies using marks derived from the
Chemical salt Cefixime, namely:-

\- CEFO of Medley

\- CEFIX of Cipla

\- CEFO adopted by Alembic for the salt Cefuroxime

\- CEFU adopted by Prem Pharma for the salt Cefuroxime

\- CEFF adopted by Lupin for the salt Cephalexin Others whose name appearing
in the trade mark search reports given by the plaintiff's own attorney to the
defendant two months prior to the date of launch of the plaintiff's project,
include:-

\- CEFEX of Parke Davis

\- CEFIXE of Nicholos Piramal

\- CEFOX of Siscon

\- CIFEX of Orion

5\. The bonafides of the defendants are clear from the fact that it obtained a
clear search report as regards conflicts with CEFI from its Attorney. Further
the packaging of both products are completely different.

6\. The trademarks are different as the letter 'Z' is one of the highly
distinctive letters in the English alphabet and has a powerful distinguishing
capacity as held in Cadila Vs. Dabur 1997 PTC (17) 417 where the learned judge
held:

"....the defendant has independently opted for 'Z' which is a highly distinct
letter among all the syllables of the English language."

7\. Quite apart from the above CEFI and ZIFI are pronounced differently and
visually appear quite different particularly when pronounced in the Devnagri
script and being scheduled drugs can only be purchased through a written
prescription of a doctor or a registered medical practitioner and dispensed by
a chemist or a registered pharmacist. Therefore, there are inherent checks and
balances within the pharmaceutical industry which would ensure that the
competing marks would not be confused.

On the other hand learned counsel for the plaintiff submitted that ex-parte
injunction order dated 1-8-2001 warrants to be confirmed and the sole emphasis
was on the phonetic similarity between the two trade marks. It was submitted
that the argument that cefixime is a generic word was of no avail to the
defendant inasmuch as defendant had not adopted the word CEFI from the
aforesaid word cefixime. The examples of other companies using similar trade
mark was also of no consequence as all those companies were using the word
CEFI and combining the same with some other word for their products. On the
other hand the trade mark used by the defendant, namely, ZIFI had no
relationship with the generic word cefixime. Thus what needed to be examined
was to whether there was phonetic similarity between the two trade marks,
namely, CEFI and ZIFI and it was likely to cause deception. The comparison was
not between two generic words. It was submitted that it was a clear case of
similarity with same structure of word in respect of same medicine. In case of
such phonetic similarity, it was argued that the Plaintiff was entitled to
injunction and following judgments were cited in support of this:

1\. . [TISCO : FISCO]

2\. AIR 1986 Delhi 345 [DOUBLE : BUBBLE]

3\. [CHARMIS : FORMIS]

4\. 1987 PTC 47 [EXIDE : ROXIDE]

5\. 1997 (28) Arb. LR 25 [CASTROL : BESTROL] Relying upon the recent Supreme
Court judgment in the case of Cadila Healthcare Ltd. Vs. Cadila
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. IPLR 2001 APR. 87 it was submitted that there may be a
bar on claiming trade mark rights in a generic word or a phonetic equivalent
thereof but there is no bar in claiming trade mark right in a mark derived
from the generic word. This emerges from the reading of CADILA Judgment" where
the basic plea taken by the defendant was that the competing trade marks were
"FALCIGO" and "FALICITAB" derived from "FALCIPHARUM", a disease of cerreberal
malaria. There was nothing similar between the trade marks except prefix
"FALCI" derived from the generic name "FALCIPHARUM". Despite the defense taken
of the generic nature of the trade mark, the Supreme Court excluded the said
plea to be taken into consideration in determining deceptive similarity
between competing trade marks derived from generic names of the drugs or
diseases. Hence, it is perfectly permissible in law. There is also no such bar
under Trade and Merchandise Marks Act. It was also submitted that following
case of Amritdhara Pharmacy Vs. Satya Deo Gupta the Supreme Court held that
"the court is not to go into etymological meaning of the words used as trade
mark. The reason being that such meanings are not known to the consumers". In
the present case from claiming proprietary right in the trade mark "CEFI" on
the ground that it is derived from the generic name of the drug "CEFIXIME".
Such contention is against "CADILA judgment". The plaintiff is not claiming
any trade mark right in the generic name "CEFIXIME". The mark "CEFI" is not a
phonetic equivalent of the generic name "CEFIXIME". The layman or consumer
would not know or is concerned with the salt used in the drug. "CEFI" is,
therefore, a valid trade mark and is to be protected like any other trade
mark. Reliance was also placed in the case of Win-Medicare Ltd. Vs. Somacare
Laboratories 1997 PTC (17) 34 where "DICLOMOL" was held to be an inventive
trade mark though derived from the salt diclophenyl sodium and paracetamol. It
is a common practice in the drug industry to derive trade marks from the name
of drug or disease. It was submitted that the law in respect of trade marks
derived from generic drugs has been put to rest after the "CADILA Judgment".
It was submitted that in this case the factor of "scheduled drug" has been
considered as irrelevant by the Supreme Court which was also the law laiddown
in the case of K.R. Chinna Krishna Chettiar Vs. Sri Ambal & Co., and another
and in the case of Amritdhara Pharmacy Vs. Satya Deo Gupta . The other
submission of learned counsel for the plaintiff was that the proprietary right
in a trade mark is acquired by prior use irrespective of length of use
(Century Traders Vs. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. and others ) and that goodwill
can be acquired within the short span of time (1998 PTC 698), which the
plaintiff was able to prove in this case. The learned counsel concluded his
submissions in the following manner:

a. Law does not prohibit coining a trade mark from generic name as long as the
coined trade mark does not convey the same meaning as the generic name to a
consumer.

b. It the trade mark is not itself a generic word or phonetic equivalent
thereof, it is to be considered as a fancy trade mark which would be protected
like any other trade mark.

c. While determining the deceptive similarity of competing trade marks, the
letters derived from generic word and forming part of the trade mark are not
to be excluded. The trade marks are to be compared as a whole.

d. The meaning conveyed by the trade marks, if not known to the consumer is an
irrelevant factor. It is the phonetic similarity which is relevant
consideration.

e. CEFI does not convey any meaning by itself unless explained. CEFI by itself
is not generic word.

f. The trade mark CEFI and ZIFI are deceptively similar on account of phonetic
similarity.

There is no quarrel about the propositions of law which are argued by either
side. Of course, principles laid down by Supreme Court in Cadila case (supra)
have to be kept in mind. However, one need not deal with the various arguments
advanced by both the sides at this stage. Central issue, after all, is limited
in its scope. Admittedly, the core issue to be examined is whether there is
phonetic similarity between the two trade marks CEFI and ZIFI. After all the
plaintiff's own case is founded on this argument. Therefore, it is this aspect
which needs to be examined at this stage while considering the application for
grant of ad-interim injunction. Before deciding this aspect, few salient facts
are to be borne in mind. The plaintiff's trade mark CEFI is derived from
Chemical bound cefixime as it is not in dispute that the drugs manufactured
and sold by the plaintiff contained cefixime. It is also not in dispute that
for same medicine many other pharmaceutical companies are using the trade
marks derived from cefixime. Many of these companies launched their medicines
in the market much prior to the launching of its product by the plaintiff.
Therefore, the plaintiff cannot claim itself to be the first user of such a
trade mark. On the contrary as per plaintiff's own showing its products under
the trade mark CEFI was launched only in April, 2001. When there can be same
medicinal products marketed by different companies with the use of CEF as part
of the trade name, namely, cefo, cefix, cefu, ceff, ceffex, cefixe, cefox and
cifex etc. which are more similar or nearer to the plaintiff's trade mark
phonetically as well as alphabetically, and when all such trade marks can co-
exist in the market without causing any deception or confusion it is beyond
comprehension that the defendant's trade mark ZIFI which starts with
alphabet-Z would cause any confusio of deception. Coupled with this, one has
to keep in mind that the drug in question is a scheduled drug and can only be
purchased through a written prescription of a doctor or a registered medical
practitioner and dispensed by a chemist or a registered pharmacist. The
argument of scheduled drug, by itself alone, may not be sufficient to dislodge
the case of the plaintiff once the principle laid down in Cadila (supra) is
kept in mind. However, when this aspect is considered along with other factors
weighing favor of the defendant it assumes some significance at least. One
cannot at this stage lose sight of the fact that defendant is not a fly-by-
night type of company but also been able to sell the medicine in question to
the tune of approximately Rs. 90 lakhs in 15 days i.e. 16-7-2001 to 31-7-2001.
The defendant also claims that the price of its product is lowest in the
industry and with a view to eliminate the defendant from the market the
plaintiff has filed the present suit. It is also explained that defendant has
a family of trade mark beginning with 'Z' which encompasses ZOXAN, ZOXAN-TZ,
ZOXAN Eye and Ear Drops, ZOXAN Eye Ointment, ZOXAN-D Eye Drops, ZOSPAR, ZO
ZO-T, ZOCON, ZOCON-T ZOCON Eye Drops, ZEFRICH. These claims are also not
disputed by the plaintiff. Therefore, prima facie it appears that the use of
trade mark ZIFI by the defendant for its medicine or products is not going to
cause any confusion and/or deception in the mind of consumers. When there are
many products in the market having similar name as that of plaintiff than that
of the defendant, it would be improper to continue the interim injunction as
the balance of convenience is also in favor of the defendant. The
inconvenience and the loss which may be caused to the defendant is likely to
be much more in case the injunction is continued than the so called
inconvenience to the plaintiff if the following observations of Supreme Court
in the case of Wander Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Antox India (P) Ltd. reported in 1990
(Supp) SCC 727:

"Usually, the prayer for grant of an interlocutory injunction is at a stage
when the existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and its
alleged violation are both contested and uncertain and remain uncertain till
they are established at the trial on evidence. The court, at this stage, acts
on certain well settled principles of administration of this form of
interlocutory remedy which is both temporary and discretionary. The objection
of the interlocutory injunction, if is stated "..is to protect the plaintiff
against injury by violation of his rights for which he could not adequately be
compensated in damages recoverable in the action if the uncertainty were
resolved in his favor at the trial. The need for such protection must be
weighed against the corresponding need of the defendant to be protected
against injury resulting from his having been prevented from exercising his
own legal rights for which he could not be adequately compensated. The court
must weigh one need against another and determine where the 'balance of
convenience lies."

The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in status quo, the rights of
parties which may appear on a prima facie case. The court also, in restraining
a defendant from exercising what he considers his legal right but what the
plaintiff would like to be prevented, puts into the scales, as a relevant
consideration whether the defendant has yet to commence his enterprise
somewhat different from those that apply to a case where the defendant is yet
to commence his enterprise, are attracted."

Accordingly, I.A. 6867/2001 filed by the plaintiff is dismissed and I.A.
7146/2001 filed by the defendant is allowed. Ex-parte ad interim injunction
granted on 1st August, 2001 is hereby vacated.

_

