

Gujarat High Court

Cadbury India Limited vs Sm Dyechem Limited on 24 August, 1999

Equivalent citations: (2000) 1 GLR 680

Author: A Kapadia

Bench: A Kapadia

JUDGMENT A.M. Kapadia, J.

1\. Appellant, Cadbury India Limited, having lost the legal battle against
respondent SM Dyechem Limited in the lower Court, has knocked the doors of
this Court by filing this Appeal from Order with the aids of the provisions of
Order 43 Rule 1 of the Civil Procedure Code ('the Code' for short), whereunder
it challenged the order dated 23.3.1999 recorded below Ex.6 - Notice of Motion
- in Civil Suit No. 852 of 1999, by learned Chamber Judge, City Civil Court,
Ahmedabad, whereby he granted injunction against the appellant in terms of
para 21(A) & (B) of the application restraining the appellant from infringing
the respondent's trade mark "PIKNIK" which is registered under the provisions
of Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 ('the Act' for short hereinafter)
vide trade mark No. 505532 and to pass off the appellant's goods i.e.,
chocolate, chocolate preparations, wafer biscuits and/or the like goods as and
for that of respondents, till the disposal of the suit.

2\. Present appellant is the original defendant whereas present respondent is
the original plaintiff and hence for the sake of convenience and brevity, the
parties are hereinafter referred to as 'the plaintiff' and 'the defendant'
respectively.

3\. Before highlighting the nature of controversy posed for determination of
this Court in this Appeal from Order, it is necessary to advert to a few but
relevant facts of the case.

4\. In nutshell the plaintiff's case is as under:

4.1. Plaintiff, SM Dyechem Limited, is a Public Limited Company incorporated
under the provisions of the Companies Act and is carrying on their business of
manufacturing and marketing of chemicals and chemical products and food
products, including ready to eat snacks, such as potato crisps, potato chips,
potato wafers, corn puffs, preparations made from rice and rice flour,
preparations made from cereal, etc. 4.2. Defendant, Cadbury India Limited, is
also a Public Limited Company incorporated under the provisions of the
Companies Act and is carrying on business of manufacturing and selling
chocolate preparations/wafer biscuits, snacks, etc. 4.3. In 1988, the
plaintiff started business in the field of processing of food products, more
particularly known as ready to eat snacks as mentioned hereinabove in their
food division known as "SM Foods". In 1989, the plaintiff's said division
developed and adopted a trade mark, in the name and style of "PIKNIK", in
relation to ready to eat snacks processed by them.

4.4. After adoption of the said trade mark "PIKNIK", the plaintiff commenced
use of the said trade mark in relation to ready to eat snacks processed by
them and marketed the goods in the name and style of "PIKNIK".

4.5. The plaintiff is the lawful proprietor of the said trade mark since
February 1989 and, therefore, on 17.2.1989 the Food Division of the plaintiff
applied for registration of a label mark, containing the word "PIKNIK", under
the Act, in class 29 in respect of preserved, dried and cooked fruits and
vegetables, etc. under application No. 505531B. The plaintiff also applied for
registration of the said trade mark in class 30 in respect of tea, coffee,
etc. under application No.505532. The plaintiff also applied for registration
of the said trade mark in class 32 in respect of beverages, beers, mineral and
aerated waters, soda water, etc. under application No.505533.

4.6. The aforesaid three applications were processed and pursuant to the
orders passed by the Registrar of Trade Marks, the plaintiff became the
registered proprietor of said trade mark "PIKNIK" under Nos.505531B, 505532
and 505533 in Classes 29, 30 and 32 respectively. Since the plaintiff became
the proprietor of the said trade mark, they are entitled to use exclusively
the said trade mark in relation to the aforesaid goods and the plaintiff has a
right to restrain others from using the same and/or similar trade mark.

4.7. It was further case of the plaintiff that since 1989, on an extensive and
ever growing scale, the plaintiff has been expanding from time to time its
range of ready to eat snacks and has been selling their goods bearing the said
trade mark throughout the country with the help of wide network of stockists
and dealers.

4.8. By virtue of intensive and extensive sales promotional efforts,
adequately supplemented by widespread publicity all over the country, coupled
with high standard of quality and controls adhered to by the plaintiff, the
plaintiff's said goods have become very popular and acquired tremendous
reputation and goodwill all over the country and the said goods became
distinctive with the plaintiff and is exclusively identified by the trade and
public with the plaintiff.

4.9. In sum and substance, the plaintiff's case is that they have
painstakingly built up formidable reputation and goodwill in respect of the
said trade mark "PIKNIK" and the enormous reputation and goodwill is reflected
from the fact that the plaintiff's sale of said goods have been growing by
leaps and bounds year after year.

4.10. The plaintiff's attention was drawn on a food product, being a chocolate
preparation/wafer biscuits snacks marketed under the trade mark "PICNIC"
purported to be manufactured by the defendant. As the trade mark used in
respect of the goods being an eatable and was similar to the plaintiff's trade
mark, which was also used for eatables, and the same was violating the rights
of the plaintiff in respect of the said trade mark "PIKNIK", the plaintiff,
through their trade mark attorney, caused a letter dated 16.3.1998, to be
addressed to the defendant, recording some of the abovesaid facts and calling
upon the defendant to cease and desist from the use of the trade mark "PICNIC"
in relation to the impugned goods forthwith. The plaintiff also informed that
the plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the said trade mark "PIKNIK" in
relation to chocolate, biscuits and other foods products and, therefore, the
use of the trade mark "PICNIC" by the defendant in respect of their
chocolates, etc., was infringing the rights of the plaintiff in respect of the
said trade mark "PIKNIK". The plaintiff also called upon the defendant to pay
Rs.3 crores towards the damages in addition to the notice charges.

4.11. It was further case of the plaintiff that though the aforesaid letter
was received by the defendant they failed to give any considered reply and as
a matter of fact the defendant had conclusively failed to assign any cogent
and justifiable reason for using the impugned trade mark "PICNIC".

4.12. In spite of the plaintiff calling upon the defendant to discontinue the
use of the impugned trade mark, the defendant has continued to use the same
and the defendant has failed and neglected to comply with the requisitions
contained in the letter dated 16.3.1998 issued by the plaintiff's trade mark
attorney and they have continued to openly advertise and sell the impugned
goods under the plaintiff's trade mark.

4.13. According to the plaintiff, notwithstanding the above facts and with
full knowledge that the plaintiff's range of food products or ready to eat
snacks or eatables are sold under the trade mark "PIKNIK", the defendant, with
fraudulent and dishonest intention of encashing and trading upon the
plaintiff's goodwill and reputation, adopted and introduced chocolate
preparations or wafers, biscuits, also being food products or ready to eat
snacks or eatables under the same trade mark "PICNIC" knowing fully well about
the fact that the word PIKNIK irrespective of manners in which it is either
spelled or pronounced, the public is likely to be confused and/or deceived as
to the origin of the impugned goods and public interest being of considerable
importance, should not be allowed to be jeopardized and, therefore, the
defendant should not be allowed to encash the reputation and goodwill of the
plaintiff, by using the trade mark "PICNIC". It was further alleged that by
using the trade mark "PICNIC", the defendant is violating the plaintiff's
exclusive right in respect of said registered trade mark "PIKNIK". Hence, the
suit was filed for perpetual injunction to restrain the defendant from in any
manner using the trademark "PICNIC" in relation to chocolates, chocolate
preparation, etc., or any other trade mark which is deceptively or confusingly
similar in the manner whatsoever to the plaintiff's trademark "PIKNIK" so as
to infringe the plaintiff's trade mark "PIKNIK" registered under No. 505532.

4.14. Along with the suit, application Ex.6, notice of motion, was also taken
out by the plaintiff, wherein, inter alia, it was prayed for temporary
injunction restraining the defendant from in any manner using the trade mark
"PICNIC" or any other trade mark which is deceptively and confusingly similar
in any manner whatsoever to the plaintiff's trade mark "PIKNIK" so as to
infringe plaintiff's trade mark registered under No. 505532, in relation to
chocolates, chocolate preparations, etc., and has also prayed for restraining
the defendant from passing off the goods as and for that of the plaintiff.

4.15. The defendant hotly contested the application notice of motion- by
filing reply at Ex.14, inter alia, contending that the plaintiff is not
entitled to any relief on the ground of delay as the 'CADBURY'S PICNIC' was
introduced in the market in February 1998. It was further case of the
defendant that the trade mark "PICNIC" of the defendant was registered in the
year 1977. It was contended that the trademark "PICNIC" of the defendant was
registered by them earlier under No.329970 in Class 30 of the 4th Schedule to
the Act. It was further averred that the defendant has filed a subsequent
application for registration of the mark CADBURY PICNIC in August, 1996 under
application No.712676. It was contended that the defendant's trade mark
"CADBURY'S PICNIC" was considered by the Registrar who in any case had
directed that the registration of the Trade Mark shall give no right to the
exclusive use of the word "PICNIC", it being a common dictionary word. It was
alleged that the plaintiff has obtained registration of a label mark
containing the words PIK-NIK knowing fully well that they would never have
been able to register the mark PIK-NIK or any imitation or a misspelling
thereof as it is considered to be not distinctive. It was further contended
that the word CADBURY PICNIC and/or "PICNIC" and/or label consisting of the
word PICNIC is registered by the defendant's parent company in all over 110
countries all over the world and the application for the same or similar marks
are pending in many other countries. It was further averred that by virtue of
the existence of the registration world over and use of the mark PICNIC, the
defendant's parent company has transborder reputation and goodwill and the
plaintiff cannot claim monopoly in an ordinary dictionary word or any
misspelling thereof. It was further contended that the plaintiff never
intended to be in chocolates or confectionery business and the main business
of the plaintiff was dyes and chemical. It was further averred that the
business relating to food articles is merely ancillary and primarily confined
extruded if it is falling in the category of "Namkin" or "Papads" and,
therefore, it was alleged that the plaintiff has filed a fraudulent and
frivolous suit to deliberately and purposely harass and defame and defendant's
goodwill and denied that trademark of the defendant is similar to the
plaintiff's label mark. It was contended that both the labels are different
and distinct from each other. It was further contended that PICNIC or PIKNIK
is ordinary dictionary word and ordinary dictionary word cannot be registered
as a trademark. The defendant, therefore, contended that the plaintiff is not
entitled to any relief and prayed for dismissing the application.

5\. The learned trial Judge, after considering the submissions advanced by
learned advocates for both the parties and after appreciating the documents
produced before him and on the facts emerging from the record of the case so
also considering the case law relied upon by the learned advocates for both
the sides, has allowed the application No.6, notice of motion, by granting
injunction as prayed for in favour of the plaintiff by holding that the
plaintiff's trade mark is registered, the plaintiff has a prima facie case and
balance of convenience also tilted in favour of the plaintiff and if the
injunction as prayed for is not granted the plaintiff is likely to suffer
irreparable loss and its reputation and resultantly the learned trial Judge
has restrained the defendant by issuing temporary injunction from using the
plaintiff's trade mark in relation to the chocolate, chocolate preparations,
etc., so that there may not be any infringement to the plaintiff's trade mark
"PIKNIK" and also restrained the defendant from passing off the defendant's
goods as and for that of the plaintiff. It is this finding and resultant order
which is now impugned before this Court at the instance of the defendant.

6\. Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Thakore on behalf of the appellant strenuously
assailed the order mainly on the following premise:

(i) The word 'PIKNIK' is an exact phonetic equivalent of a common dictionary
word 'PICNIC' and therefore it cannot be considered as an invented work.
Alternatively, if it is considered as an invented word, the plaintiff on the
basis of such invented word, cannot stop the defendant from using a common
dictionary word like 'PICNIC' which is otherwise unregisterable and can be
used by any person.

(ii) The registration which is granted to the plaintiff is a label containing
the word 'PIKNIK' written in a particular manner with a caricature of a little
boy above it. Such registration does not prevent any one from using a common
dictionary word 'PICNIC' with respect to its goods. Therefore, no infringement
would take place since the defendant used the word 'PICNIC' only and not the
label registered by the plaintiff and therefore the plaintiff has no prima
facie case since there was no infringement of its trade mark.

(iii) The defendant has trans-border reputation in not only the mark per se
'Cadbury' but also in the mark 'Cadbury Picnic'. In view of the trans-border
reputation, there is no scope of passing off since the defendant's sales
figures are far excess of the plaintiff's sales figure which clearly
establishes that the defendant is not passing of their goods as made by the
plaintiff but are effecting sales in view of their reputation as chocolate
manufacturers and their goodwill in the mark 'Cadbury'.

(iv) Balance of convenience is tilted in favour of the defendant since the
defendant is capable of compensating the plaintiff if the plaintiff succeeds
at the trial, whereas the plaintiff is not capable of compensating the
defendant for the loss incurred by the defendant on account of continuation of
the injunction during pendency of the suit in case the defendant succeeds.

(v) The defendant has already applied for rectification of the plaintiff's
trade mark label containing the word 'PIKNIK'. There are all good reasons to
succeed since the plaintiff has never used label containing 'PIKNIK' for the
manufacture of chocolate since registration. On this score also plaintiff is
not entitled to ad-interim injunction against defendant for action of
infringement.

(vi) The plaintiff is not entitled to any ad-interim or interim injunction on
the principle of delay, laches or acquiescence as well.

7\. On the aforesaid premise, learned Senior Counsel Mr.Thakore contended that
the learned Chamber Judge has overlooked all the above aspects and committed
serious error both of law and facts and misdirected himself about the crucial
question on the basis of phonetic similarity between the two words which,
according to the learned trial Judge, is likely to create confusion in the
mind of buyers but in reality it is not so and on the basis of the aforesaid
finding, the learned Chamber Judge has recorded erroneous finding with respect
to prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable injury in favour
of the plaintiff contrary to the settled canons of law and, therefore, the
order recorded by the learned Chamber Judge is bad in law and, therefore, it
is liable to be quashed and set aside by allowing this appeal and thereby
vacating the injunction granted by the learned Chamber Judge by dismissing the
application notice of motion.

8\. In counter submissions, learned Senior Advocate Mr.S.B. Vakil for the
respondent while supporting the impugned order throughout has repelled all the
aforesaid contentions raised by the learned Senior Counsel Mr.Thakore for the
appellant and submitted as under:

(i) The word 'PIKNIK' is an invented word. The word 'PICNIC' may be a common
word but not the word 'PIKNIK'. Since the word 'PIKNIK' is registered, the
plaintiff has a proprietary right over the same, therefore, infringement
action will lie.

(ii) Registration of plaintiff's trade mark has become conclusive in view of
expiry of statutory period of seven years from the date of registration and
therefore it should be considered as a valid one.

(iii) Goods and labels of the defendant are different is no ground to escape
action of infringement since action of infringement is a statutory remedy
available in favour of proprietor of registered trade mark.

(iv) Trans-border reputation of the defendant's product cannot give way to
Indian law of trade mark.

(v) Since in an action of infringement there is a recurring cause of action,
the principle of delay cannot be invoked as it is not fatal in an action of
infringement. Same is the position with laches and acquiescence. The suit is
filed by the plaintiff in a period of ten months after serving the seizure and
desist notice to the defendant and the said period cannot be construed as
delay, laches or acquiescence.

(vi) Pendency of rectification petition is no ground to refuse injunction and
on the basis thereof, defendant cannot claim equity in an action of
infringement of registered trade mark.

(vii) The submission about the registered trade mark 'PIKNIK' is invalid since
it is contrary to Section 9 of the Trade Mark Act is not correct as it is not
open to challenge for any party once trade mark is registered. The work
'PIKNIK' is the essential feature of the plaintiff's trade mark, therefore,
anyone who uses the said trade mark is liable for action of infringement under
the law.

9\. On the aforesaid premise, learned Senior Advocate Mr.Vakil has contended
that the impugned order is just and proper and in accordance with law which
does not require any interference at the hands of this Court. Since the
finding and the resultant order recorded by the learned Chamber Judge is not
perverse, arbitrary, unjust or unreasonable, this Appeal from Order is liable
to be dismissed having no merits in it by affirming the impugned order.

10\. Before examining the rival contentions of both the parties, let us
highlight the undisputed aspects of the case which are incapable of being
disputed.

(i) Plaintiff company is dealing in the business of processing food products
and in January 1989, they got registered their trade mark in the name and
style of label mark having a caricature of a little boy above it with word
'PIKNIK' in Class 29, 30 & 32 respectively. They are, therefore, the
registered proprietor of the said trade mark of label mark having a caricature
of a boy with word 'PIKNIK'.

(ii) Defendant marketed Cadbury Picnic chocolate in February 1998.

(iii) Plaintiff served notice on the defendant on 16.3.1998 alleging action of
infringement of their trade mark by the defendant.

(iv) Defendant gives reply to the said notice refuting charge of infringement
and passing off on 7.4.1998.

(v) From 7.4.1998 to 10.2.1999, plaintiff takes no action and allow defendant
to market their products.

(vi) During the interregnum period, defendant incurred sales promotional
expenditure i.e. selling cost of Rs.6.75 crores on the total sales of Rs.18
crores.

(vii) Plaintiff issues fresh notice dated 10.2.1999.

(viii) Plaintiff filed suit on 18.2.1999 i.e. almost after ten months after
the defendant has started its business of manufacturing chocolate in the name
of Cadbury Picnic.

(ix) Defendant has not so far started manufacturing of chocolate though the
trade mark is registered in Class 30.

(x) Products of the plaintiff and the defendant are different. At present,
plaintiff is marketing under trade mark of label mark with the word 'PIKNIK'
potato chips, wafers etc. whereas defendant is manufacturing and marketing
chocolate in the name of Cadbury Picnic. The said mark is unregistered.

(xi) Plaintiff registered their trade mark Cadbury Picnic as back as in 1977
in the name and style of Cadbury Picnic which was lapsed in 1984. Thereafter,
again they applied for registration of the said trade mark Cadbury Picnic in
the year August 1996. The said application is still awaiting its final
decision.

(xii) Rectification application filed by the defendant against the plaintiff
seeking rectification of their trade mark having label with a caricature of a
boy and the word PIKNIK is still awaiting its final decision before the
Hon'ble High Court of Bombay.

11\. First contention of learned Senior Advocate Mr. Thakore is that the word
PIKNIK which is an exact phonetic equivalent of a common dictionary word like
picnic is unregisterable. The word PIKNIK is an exact phonetic equivalent of a
common dictionary word and, therefore, cannot be considered as an invented
word. Alternatively he has submitted that if the word PIKNIK is considered as
an invented word, the plaintiff, on the basis of such invented word, cannot
stop the defendant from using a common dictionary word like PICNIC, which is
otherwise unregisterable and can be used by any person.

11.1. To bring home the aforesaid submissions, Mr. Thakore has placed reliance
on the decision in the case of Electrix & Electrics, reported in 1959 RPC 283,
wherein the House of Lords has held that a word not being an invented word,
ought not to be put on the Register if the spelling is phonetic and resembles
in sound a word which in its proper spelling could not be put on the Register.
The question before the House of Lords was with respect to the similarity of
words Electrix and Electrics.

11.2. Mr. Thakore has also placed reliance on the judgment of the Bombay High
Court in the case of Mrs. Anneliese Huckmann v. Registrar of Trade Marks, AIR
1962 Bombay 88. In that case the Bombay High Court has held that the word
'Patentex" is neither an invented word nor a coined word and as such it is not
registerable. A word would not be invented which with some trifling addition
or very trifling variation, still leaves the word one which is well known or
in ordinary use. In that judgment, the Bombay High Court has held that there
is so much resemblance between the word 'patentex' and the word "patended".

11.3. Relying upon the aforesaid two decisions, it was contended by Mr.
Thakore that the word which is unregisterable is registered by the Registrar
of Trade Marks which is a common dictionary word and hence cannot claim to be
an invented word and on the basis of that word, action of infringement cannot
lie against the use of the similar word either by a trader or manufacturer.

12\. Learned advocate Mr. S.B. Vakil has contended that PIKNIK is an invented
word and once the word is registered, the said contention is not open for the
defendant against the action of infringement. He further contended that the
registration of the plaintiff's mark has become conclusive in view of the
expiration of seven years from the date of registration and should be
considered as a valid one. He further contended that the said registration is
not contrary to the provisions of Section 9 of the Act. He then contended that
the aforesaid two decisions relied upon by learned advocate Mr. Thakore is of
no avail or assistance to the defendant as both the decisions are irrelevant
to the facts of the case. In both the aforesaid decisions, question of
cancellation of registration of trade mark was before the House of Lords and
the Bombay High Court, by way of appeal. Here that is not the question. This
Court is not deciding the validity of the registration of Trade Mark PIKNIK
registered in favour of the plaintiff. He further contended that so far as the
instant case is concerned, the plaintiff has to establish the mark used by the
defendant is deceptively similar to the plaintiff's mark or not. The plaintiff
has used the mark PIKNIK while defendant has started using the mark PICNIC and
both the marks are deceptively and phonetically similar. Therefore, the word
PIKNIK is the essential feature of the mark.

12.1. In support of the aforesaid contention, Mr. Vakil has placed reliance on
the decision of the Honourable Apex Court in the case of Corn Products v.
Shangrila Food Products, AIR 1960 SC 142, wherein the Honourable Supreme Court
has held that the question whether the two marks are likely to give rise to
confusion or not is a question of first impression. It is for the court to
decide that question. English cases proceeding on the English way of
pronouncing an English word by English Men, which is not always the same, may
not be of much assistance in our country in deciding questions of phonetic
similarity. It is well recognized that in deciding a question of similarity
between two marks, the marks have to be considered as a whole.

12.2. He then placed reliance on another decision of the Honourable Supreme
Court in the case of Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo Gupta, AIR 1962 SC 449.
The Honourable Supreme Court in that case has held that to a man of average
intelligence the overall structure and phonetic similarity of two names
'Amritdhara' and 'Lakshmandhara' was likely to deceive or cause confusion.

12.3. He also pressed into service the decision of the Honourable Apex Court
in the case of K.R. Chinna Krishna Chettiar v. Sri Ambal and Co., AIR 1970 SC
146, wherein it was held that there was a striking similarity and affinity of
sound between the words "Ambal" and "Andal" and it could cause real danger and
confusion between the two marks.

12.4. Lastly Mr. Vakil relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of
Rupa & Co. v. Dawn Mills Co. Ltd., AIR 1998 Gujarat 247. In that case, this
Court had an occasion to deal with the meaning of 'deceptively similar' as
defined in Section 2(d) of the Act which postulates that a mark shall be
deemed to be deceptively similar to another mark if it so nearly resembles
that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion.

13\. From the aforesaid decision relied upon by learned advocate Mr. Vakil,
there cannot be two opinion that the Act does not lay down any criteria for
determining what is likely to deceive or cause confusion. Every case must
depend upon its own peculiar facts and value of the validity lies in not
actual decision in determining what is likely to deceive or cause confusion.

14\. It is true that so far as the judgments relied upon by learned advocate
Mr. Thakore are concerned, the legality and validity of the trade mark either
by way of appeal or by way of petition was challenged on the ground that the
trade mark claimed by the claimants was not an invented word whereas in the
instant case the question is as to whether trade mark claimed by the plaintiff
is an invented word or an ordinary word found in the dictionary which can be
allowed to be used by the defendant as well.

15\. It is equally true that the defendant had intended to use the trade mark
PICNIC as back as in 1977 and has been using the said mark all over the world.
When the defendant had applied for the trade mark PICNIC, the trade mark
registry specifically observed that PICNIC is not adapted to distinguish and
that cadbury will not be entitled to exclusive use of the word picnic per se.

16\. Relying upon the aforesaid undisputed facts, learned advocate Mr.Thakore
contended that the plaintiff also could not have obtained registration of the
word mark 'PIKNIK' and hence sought only registration of label containing the
word PIKNIK written in a particular script with a caricature of a little boy
above it. It is this label which has been registered by the Registrar of Trade
Marks and action of infringement would lie only if the defendant uses the said
label. The defendant is not using the said label of the plaintiff but using
the word PICNIC prefixing the word Cadbury. Therefore, there is no question of
infringement qua the label of the plaintiff.

17\. Learned advocate Mr. Vakil has contended that the label mark is
registered and, therefore, question of infringement does not arise is a
misconceived submission. He further submitted that since the essential feature
of the label mark is PIKNIK any part of that label used by defendant is
violative of the trade mark registered by the plaintiff and, therefore,
infringement action would lie against any person who uses any part of that
label mark and since the defendant is using the word PICNIC though with
different spelling phonetically both words are equivalent and, therefore,
action of infringement would definitely lie against the defendant.

18\. There cannot be two opinion with regard to the proposition of law that
while comparing mark essential feature must be seen and so far as the
plaintiff's trade mark is concerned, the word PIKNIK cannot be called
essential feature. It is the script of a word along with a caricature of a
little boy which is the essential feature of the trade mark and, therefore,
the plaintiff cannot place reliance on the mere word PIKNIK and claim
infringement. In the case of Corn Products (supra), which is relied upon by
learned advocate Mr. Vakil, the Honourable Supreme Court has held that it is
well recognized that in deciding a question of similarity between two marks,
the marks have to be considered as a whole.

19\. In the case of an exclusive trade mark, the same must consist of some
arbitrary or fanciful term, figure, or device, and words or phrases, in order
to constitute a trade mark, must be used in a purely arbitrary or fanciful
when they do not by their usual and ordinary meaning, denote or describe
products to which they are applied, but rather come to indicate their purposes
by application and association. In other words, the principle or settled rule
would be that either in the case of goods or business the plaintiff has to
show that his mark has become so distinctive that the public regard the same
as belonging to a particular source. The plaintiff has to further prove that
the offending mark or name is likely or calculated to deceive and cause
confusion among the public thereby injuring the plaintiff's business.The test
in this regard necessarily would be of a normal prudent person as to whether
the defendant is selling the goods so marked as by design or calculated the
public to believe that they are the goods of the plaintiff.

20\. The plaintiff's trade mark is a label having script PIKNIK with
caricature of a little boy above it and it is marketing the goods i.e., potato
chips and potato wafers in a polythene pouch. The plaintiff has registered the
trade mark under class 30 and chocolates are also included under the said
class. Defendant is marketing Cadbury chocolates under the trade label
Cadbury's PICNIC and marketing the same in polythene pouch. It is, therefore,
clear that both the articles are different. It is also equally true that the
defendant is not using their label, that is, having a caricature of a little
boy. Therefore, there is absolutely no similarity in product, label and the
pouch of plaintiff and defendant which is likely to deceive or cause confusion
in the mind of common buyer. Therefore, no action of infringement of the
plaintiff's Trade Mark is committed by the defendant.

21\. Learned advocate Mr. Vakil has contended that identity of the goods has
absolutely no relevance and in support of his submission he has placed
reliance on various judgments to show that despite different products
injunction was granted. Mr. Vakil has pressed into service judgment of the
Allahabad High Court in the case of Bata India Limited v. M/s. Pyare Lal &
Co., AIR 1985 Allahabad 242. In that case Bata Company has filed suit for
permanent injunction against the company using mark 'Batafoam' because use of
word 'Bata' in 'Batafoam' could cause deception in mind of ordinary customer
and, therefore, injury to 'Bata' company also would be caused and, therefore,
interim injunction was granted in favour of Bata company in that case.

21.1. Reliance was also placed upon the judgment of the Delhi High Court in
the case of Daimler Benz Aktiegesellschaft and another v. Hybo Hindustan,
reported in AIR 1994 Delhi 239. In that case it was held by the Delhi High
Court that the trade mark namely three pointed star in circle/ring and word
'Benz' is associated with name of world famous car 'Mercedes Benz'. The
defendant was using word 'Benz' and three pointed Human Being in a ring, on
undergarments. In that case the Delhi High Court has held that it amounts to
infringement even though the products are different.

22\. The aforesaid submissions and the judgments relied upon by learned
advocate Mr. Vakil have been seriously assailed by learned advocate Mr.
Thakore. According to him, the judgments relied upon by learned advocate Mr.
Vakil are clearly distinguishable on following three counts:

(i) Firstly the said judgments relied upon by Mr.Vakil are of very renowned
mark and therefore anybody copying such mark even for a different product is
likely to create an impression that the product has relation to such renowned
mark or is being manufactured by the person owning such renowned mark. Bata,
Mercedes, Kirloskar, Kodak, Cibaca are some of such renowned marks. He
submitted that PIKNIK or S.M. Dyechem cannot be compared with Mercedes, Bata,
etc.

(ii) Secondly the judgments relied upon by Mr. Vakil are in connection with
either identical goods or closely connected goods or common field of activity.

(iii) Thirdly, in absence of renowned marks or common field of activity no
injunction can be granted when the products are different. The judgments
relied upon by Mr. Vakil have absolutely no relevance in the present case when
the label of the plaintiff is not renowned. Therefore, according to Mr.
Thakore, the judgments relied upon by Mr. Vakil have absolutely no relevance
in the present case as the label of the plaintiff is not renowned.

23\. On having perusal upon the judgment in the case of Bata India Limited
(supra), it was observed by the High Court of Allahabad that the name of
'Bata' was registered under the Trade Marks Act, 1940 in respect of canvas,
rubber, leather shoes, rubber footwear, rubber soles, rubber heels and leather
soles, etc. It was well established that the word "Bata" was a word known all
over the country and was in use even prior to 1940. The word "Bata" was a
fancy name inasmuch as the word was not associated with any Indian name,
place, object or term. 'Bata' was the surname of a foreigner of central Europe
who started his business in India making shoes and rubber products. The word
'Bata' was associated with his name. The defendants named their product as
'Batafoam' the spelling of 'Bata' being the same as used by the plaintiff
Company. Therefore, it was held that the plaintiff had made out a case for
issuance of an interim order of injunction in respect of the user of the name
"Bata" to any of their products by the defendants.

24\. Now, having a look upon the judgment of the Delhi High Court in the case
of Daimler Benz Aktiegesellschaft (supra) wherein the Delhi High Court has
held that there are names and marks which have become household words. 'Benz'
as name of a car would be known to every family that has ever used a quality
car. The name 'Benz' as applied to a car, has a unique place in the world.
There is hardly one who is conscious of existence of the cars/automobiles who
would not recognize the name 'Benz' used in connection with cars.

25\. There is much substance and force in the submission of Mr. Thakore that
the judgments relied upon by Mr. Vakil are of company having renowned
reputation and the mark if it is used by someone would definitely create an
impression in the mind of the buyer that the particular article belongs to
that company. So far as the instant case is concerned, S.M. Dyechem Limited
has not acquired that much reputation in the country and it is using only the
trade label PIKNIK, which is a misspelling of the dictionary word PICNIC.

26\. Relying upon the judgment in the case of Rupa & Company (supra) it was
submitted by Mr. Vakil that there is a phonetic similarity between PIKNIK and
PICNIC and mere fact that plaintiff's registered mark is a label will make no
difference and, therefore, the ratio laid down in the said judgment is
applicable to the present case also. In view of the aforesaid judgment, action
of infringement would definitely lie against the respondent. It is true that
there is phonetic similarity. But the word PIKNIK is a misspelling of a common
dictionary word PICNIC and hence does not entitle the plaintiff any
proprietary right over the said trade mark. The said judgment relied upon by
learned advocate Mr. Vakil is clearly distinguishable on following score:

(i) Firstly, in the said judgment, the registered trade mark was depicting the
figure of sun at dawn with prominently displayed word 'dawn' and subsidiary
word hosiery beneath and the word mark 'dawn hosiery' per se while there is no
word mark registered in the instant case.

(ii) Secondly, the word 'dawn' has absolutely no reference to the character
and quality of the goods which are under-garments while picnic/piknik has
direct reference to the character and quality of the goods namely packed foods
which can be taken for a picnic and hence an unregistered word over which
nobody can have a proprietary right.

(iii) Thirdly, the user by Dawn Mills Company Limited is over 40 years with
very good reputation in the manufacture of hosiery while in the instant case
the user is for a very few years and the reputation is not of similar nature.

(iv) Fourthly, in the said case the products of the defendant and the
plaintiff are identical. Both Dawn and Rupa were manufacturing hosiery.
Therefore, there was very good chance of confusion and deception. In the
instant case the two products are distinct and there is no scope of confusion
and deception. On the aforesaid premise, the judgments relied upon by Mr.
Vakil in the case of Rupa & Company (supra) would not apply to the facts of
the present case and it is of no avail or assistance to the plaintiff's case
to justify the action of infringement.

27\. As already pointed out above and rementioned at the risk of repetition
that one has firstly to see whether phonetically the words are similarly used
and whether it could mislead a common person or not? The leading case on the
subject available is the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court in the case
of J.R. Kapoor v. Micronix India, 1994 Supp (3) SCC 215. In respect of certain
electrical and electronic apparatus the trade marks used were Microtel and
Micronix. In a suit filed under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, a
similar question cropped up. The appellant before the Honourable Supreme Court
was one of the partners of M/s. Micronix India. Another business was started
under the name and style of M/s. Microtelmatrix with the trade name Microtel.
The Honourable Supreme Court held that the word Micro was descriptive and
otherwise it does not mislead the other person. The findings of the Supreme
Court are as under:-

".......Further, the word 'micro' being descriptive of the micro technology
used for production of many electronic goods which daily come to the market,
no one can claim monopoly over the use of the said word. Anyone producing any
product with the use of micro-chip technology would be justified in using the
said word as a prefix to his trade name. What is further, those who are
familiar with the use of electronic goods know fully well and are not likely
to be misguided or confused merely by the prefix 'micro' in the trade name.
Once, therefore, it is held that the word 'micro' is a common or general name
descriptive of the products which are sold or of the technology by which the
products are manufactured, and the user of such products are, therefore, not
likely to be misguided or confused by the said word, the only question which
has to be prima facie decided at this stage is whether the words "tel" and
"nix" in the trade names of the appellant and the respondent are deceptive for
the buyers and users and are likely to misguide or confuse them in purchasing
one for the other. According to us, phonetically the words being totally
dissimilar are not going to create any such confusion in the mind of the
user...."

28\. Similarly, reliance can also be placed on a decision of the Madras High
Court in the case of Parle Products Limited v. Bakemans Industries Limited,
1998 Patent and Trademarks Cases, 662 (Madras) wherein similar question was
called for determination. In that case the applicant was a registered
proprietor of the trademark GLUCO. The respondent was selling biscuits under
the mark GLUCO GOLD. Madras High Court considered this controversy and held
that the packets were different and the products were also not similar. It is
not likely to mislead an ordinary person. Merely because GLUCO word was common
was not enough for the grant of ad interim relief.

28.1. Similar question arose before the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in the
case of Punjab State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited v.
Sona Spices Private Limited, 1987 Patents and Trademarks Cases 294 (Punjab &
Haryana). In that case Punjab & Haryana High Court has refused the injunction
as claimed for as there was no similarity to deceive an ordinary customer in
the words 'Sohna' and 'Sona Spices'.

28.2. Similar view was taken by the Madras High Court in the case of Indo-
Pharma Pharmaceuticals Works Limited v. Citadel Fine Pharmaceuticals Limited,
AIR 1998 Madras 347 = 1998 Patents and Trade Marks Cases 775. In that case the
appellant had filed the suit for injunction restraining the respondents from
infringing its registered trademark 'ENERJASE'. The other company was using
the name of "ENERJEX'. The Court held that no person can claim exclusive right
of descriptive name. Similarly, Delhi High Court in the case of Rupee Gains
Tele-Times Pvt. Ltd. v. Rupee Times, 1995 Patents and Trade Marks Cases, 384,
held that the word "Rupee" is not distinctive word and it is connected with
trade and business.

29\. What is the position here? The plaintiff is having trade mark label
containing the word PIKNIK written in a particular script with a caricature of
a little boy above it. The plaintiff is manufacturing and marketing potato
chips and potato wafers in a polythene pouch whereas defendant is not using
similar label. The word the defendant is using is Cadbury's PICNIC and they
are manufacturing and marketing chocolate. Therefore, both the products are
different. Labels are different. Words are different. Only word used by the
plaintiff is PIKNIK whereas the defendant uses the word PICNIC having phonetic
similarity. But since both the words are of common dictionary word plaintiff
cannot claim exclusive right over the said word.

30\. Relying upon the aforesaid observations, if we examine the case then at
the cost of repetition I may say that here the plaintiff's label mark is
registered with the word PIKNIK and, therefore, PIKNIK cannot be separated
from the label mark and on the basis of that word alone the plaintiff cannot
claim action against the defendant which uses the common dictionary word
PICNIC prefixed by the name of the company 'Cadbury'.

31\. Learned advocate Mr. Thakore then contended that the defendant has moved
an application for rectification of plaintiff's Trade Mark in the High Court
of Bombay on various grounds and there are all fair chances for it to succeed
in getting the rectification of the trade mark of the plaintiff and,
therefore, since there are fair chances to succeed in that application, on
that ground also injunction cannot be granted in favour of the plaintiff. In
support of the aforesaid contention, he has placed reliance on the judgment of
the Honourable Supreme Court in the case of Vishnudas Trading v. Vazir Sultan
Tobacco Co. Ltd., (1997) 4 SCC 201 and contended that if the trader or
manufacturer actually trading in or manufacturing only one or some of the
articles or goods under a trade mark and has no bona fide intention to trade
in or manufacture the other articles or goods falling under that class but has
obtained registration of its trade mark under that class which covers several
other articles or goods, the registration is liable to be rectified by
confirming it to the specific articles or goods which are actually intended to
be traded in or manufactured. He further contended that plaintiff is
manufacturing and marketing only potato chips and potato wafers whereas they
are not manufacturing and marketing chocolate though registration is obtained
for that in that very class for the purpose of manufacturing chocolate as
well. Therefore, the registration is liable to be rectified qua chocolate.

32\. He has also pressed into service the judgment of the High Court of Delhi
in the case of R.J. Reynods Tobacco Company v. I.T.C. Limited, 1987 PTC 57,
wherein it was held that keeping in view the facts that the plaintiff company
admittedly having not sold any cigarettes under the trade mark NOW before or
even after the registration of the trade mark and the fact that the defendant
company has applied for the rectification of the impugned trade mark from the
Register and it being not disputed that the design, lettering, lay out, colour
scheme and general get up of the packets in which the respondents are
marketing its NOW brand cigarettes is entirely different, no serious case of
passing off is made out and accordingly in view of the section 111 of the Act,
the suit is stayed. As the plaintiff had never used the mark in India, prima
facie case has been made out by the defendants for rectification of the
register. As regards the question of balance of convenience, the plaintiff
having never used the mark in India the question of injury to the reputation
does not arise and accordingly the application for grant of injunction is
dismissed with directions to maintain and file account in the Court.

33\. Relying upon the aforesaid two judgments he further contended and
reiterated that the defendant has a very good prima facie case for
rectification of the trade mark of the plaintiff since the plaintiff is not
manufacturing chocolate and on the basis of the same the plaintiff is not
entitled to interim injunction for the action of infringement against the
defendant.

34\. Learned advocate Mr. Vakil has assailed the aforesaid submission by
relying upon the pronouncement of the Honourable Supreme Court in the case of
Tube Investments of India Limited v. Trade Industries, (1997) 6 SCC 35. In
that case the Honourable Supreme Court has held that the mark used by the
respondent prima facie is similar to the mark used by the appellant. The
appellant's right in respect of its trade mark is violated and, therefore,
interim relief restraining the defendant from using trade mark should be
issued.

35\. It is true that as per the say of the defendant, rectification petition
has already been launched against the plaintiff company and the plaintiff is
not manufacturing and marketing chocolate for which they have obtained
registration under class 30. In the case of Vishnudas Trading (supra), the
issue before the Honourable Supreme Court was of rectification of the trade
mark on the ground that no evidence showing that the defendant intended or
intending to manufacture any other product of tobacco and, therefore,
rectification was granted by the Apex Court. So far as the rectification
petition filed by the present defendant against the plaintiff is concerned, it
is pending before the Bombay High Court and evidence is yet to be led and,
therefore, whether plaintiff intended or intending to manufacture chocolate is
a subject matter of leading evidence and without leading evidence it is very
difficult to jump to any conclusion. Therefore, I do not deem it expedient to
express any opinion about the rectification petition which is pending and on
that score whether defendant can claim that plaintiff is not entitled to
injunction against the defendant.

36\. It was also submitted by learned advocate Mr. Thakore that the plaintiff
is not entitled to any ad-interim or interim injunction on the principle of
delay, latches and acquiescence. Relying upon the important events which I
have adverted in the foregoing paragraphs in respect of undisputed aspects, he
contended that since after expiry of ten months of the notice, suit was filed
and meantime, during that ten months' period, that is from 7.4.1998 to
18.2.1999, the plaintiff took no action and allowed the defendant to market
their product and establish a market with substantial sales to the tune of
Rs.18 crores and incurred sales promotional expenditure by way of
advertisement of Rs.6.75 crores approximately. It clearly tantamounts to
delay, latches and acquiescence on the part of the plaintiff. In support of
the aforesaid contention, learned advocate Mr. Thakore has placed reliance on
the judgments of the Honourable Supreme Court in the case of -

(i) M/s. Power Control Appliances v.Sumeet Machines Pvt. Ltd., (1994) 2 SCC
448,

(ii) Wander Limited v. Antox India P. Ltd., 1990 (Supp) SCC 727 and

(iii) American Cyanamid v. Ethicon, 1975 (1) All England Law Reports, 504.

36.1. Relying upon the aforesaid three decisions, it was contended by Mr.
Thakore that no injunction should be granted to the plaintiff when the
defendant has already been marketing its product since February 1998.
According to him, granting of injunction would result in serious damage to the
defendant as the defendant will perforce be required to adopt a new mark and
again spend huge sum of money on advertisement and promotion of the product
with such new mark while the plaintiff can be well compensated in the form of
damages in the event the plaintiff succeeds.

37\. In reply to the aforesaid submission, learned advocate Mr. Vakil has
contended that delay is not fatal in infringement case as there is recurring
cause of action. I do not deem it expedient to answer the aforesaid question
canvassed by Mr. Thakore for the reason that I have already discussed in
earlier paragraphs of this judgment that the word PIKNIK is not an invented
word and, therefore, no infringement action would lie.

38\. Now this takes me to the last question of passing off the goods of the
defendant as and for that of the plaintiff. It is well settled proposition of
law that the action for passing off is a Common Law remedy being in substance
an action for deceit, that is, a passing off by a person of his own goods as
those of another. But that is not the gist of an action for infringement. The
action for infringement is a statutory remedy conferred on the registered
proprietor of a registered trade mark for the vindication of 'the exclusive
right to the use of the trade mark in relation to those goods'. The use by the
defendant of the trade mark of the plaintiff is not essential in an action for
passing off, but is the sine qua non in the case of an action for
infringement. No doubt, where the evidence in respect of passing off consists
merely of the colourable use of a registered trade mark, the essential
features of both the actions might coincide in the sense that what would be a
colourable initiation of a trade mark in a passing off action would also be
such in an action for infringement of the same trade mark. But there the
correspondence between the two ceases. In an action for infringement, the
plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that the use of the defendant's mark is
likely to deceive, but where the similarity between thee plaintiff's and the
defendant's mark is so close either visually, phonetically or otherwise and
the Court reaches the conclusion that there is an imitation, no further
evidence is required to establish that the plaintiff's rights are violated.
Expressed in another way, if the essential features of the trade mark of the
plaintiff have been adopted by the defendant, the fact that the get up,
packing and other writing or marks on the goods or on the packets in which he
offers his goods for sale show marked differences, or indicate clearly a trade
original different from that of the registered proprietor of the mark would be
immaterial, whereas in the case of passing off, the defendant may escape
liability if he can show that the added matter is sufficient to distinguish
his goods from those of the plaintiff (see Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v.
Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories, AIR 1965 SC 980.

39\. Keeping in forefront the aforesaid principle if we examine the case on
hand then there cannot be any two opinion about the trans-border reputation
not only in the word mark per se 'Cadbury' but also in the mark 'Cadbury
picnic'. Cadbury is a household name in India and has been marketing chocolate
since 1948. The word cadbury is synonymous with the word chocolate in India
and on all of its products cadbury uses the same lettering on the top along
with the name of the products like 'Cadbury Dairy milk', 'Cadbury Five Star'
and 'Cadbury Picnic'. Cadbury products are bought not on the basis of the name
given to the product but because of the reputation of Cadbury. In these
circumstances, there is absolutely no scope of any deception or confusion or
passing off. The products of the defendant and the plaintiff are distinct and
there is also no scope of passing off because the defendant's products are
bought because of the defendant's reputation as cadbury. In the instant case,
even the labels of the defendant and the plaintiff are different and
distinctive and there is no scope of confusion and deception in the mind of an
average buyer. In view of the aforesaid discussion, there is no scope of
passing off the defendant's goods as and for that of the plaintiff.

40\. In view of the discussion made in the foregoing paragraphs, following
aspects are high-lighted:

(i) Plaintiff's trade mark having a label containing the word 'PIKNIK' written
in a particular script and manner with a caricature of a little boy above it
though registered having a phonetic similarity to the word found in dictionary
word picnic.

(ii) The word PIKNIK on that label is neither invented nor a distinctive word
and it is also not an essential feature of the plaintiff's trade mark which is
a label. Therefore, no action for infringement against the defendant can lie.

(iii) Since registration which is granted to the plaintiff is a label mark
such registration does not prevent any one from using the dictionary word
Picnic with respect to its goods and therefore also no action of infringement
would take place.

(iv) The articles manufactured and marketed by both the plaintiff and
defendant are different and therefore also no action of infringement would
arise.

(v) So far as passing off is concerned, both the products are different,
labels are different and, therefore, no scope of confusion or deception in the
mind of common buyer. Therefore, there is no scope of passing off the goods of
the defendant as and for that of the plaintiff.

(vi) Since there is no infringement, there is no prima facie case.

(vii) In view of the new formula elucidated in the case of American Cyanamid
(supra) balance of convenience is tilted in favour of the defendant. If it
appears that the damages awarded at the trial will adequately compensate the
plaintiff and the defendant is likely to be able to pay, then, interlocutory
relief should not normally be granted. Applying this principle to the present
case it appears to me that to grant an injunction will be to cut off for good
the road to commercial success of a business competitor. In the event of the
plaintiff's success damages will be an adequate remedy. The defendant's
financial position to pay damages has not been questioned before me and they
are prepared to give an undertaking. Therefore, the balance of convenience
lies in favour of refusing the interlocutory relief that is sought.

41\. Since I am of the opinion in view of the discussion made hereinabove,
that there is no infringement action of the trade mark of the plaintiff and no
question of passing off the goods of the defendant as and for that of the
plaintiff and on the facts and in the circumstances of the case no other
conclusion can be arrived at except the one reached by me, plaintiff is not
entitled to discretionary remedy of injunction. Seen in the above context, the
conclusion arrived at by the learned trial Judge is erroneous which is
required to be quashed and set aside by refusing injunction as prayed for by
the plaintiff.

42\. It will be undesirable to comment more fully on the merits of the
application. In an Appeal from Order against an order recorded in notice of
motion on the whole, the less said about the merits of the case is better. It
is however, made clear that the findings arrived at by me about the action of
infringement and passing off are of tentative nature and will be subject to
findings that may be arrived at by the learned trial Judge in the suit after
the evidence is led. Therefore, it is desirable that the defendant is directed
to keep the accounts of all the sales it makes of the impugned products and it
shall submit the same every six months in the lower Court and it will also
give an undertaking before the lower Court that it will pay damages to the
plaintiff if the plaintiff succeeds ultimately.

43\. In the net result, the appeal succeeds and accordingly it is allowed,
however, with no order as to costs. Resultantly, the order recorded by the
learned trial Judge below notice of motion granting injunction in favour of
the plaintiff is quashed and set aside by dismissing the notice of motion
application and thereby refused to grant injunction as prayed for and hence
there shall be no injunction against the defendant.

43.1. So far as Civil Application No. 4743 of 1999 which has been filed by
plaintiff for relief of restraining the defendant from publishing as well as
causing to publish any advertisement in any manner by making use of the
impugned trademark PICNIC is concerned, it is rejected. Notice is discharged.

43.2. Civil Application No. 7428 of 1999 taken out by defendant for producing
evidence listed at Annexure A does not survive and hence it is disposed of.

43.3. No order as to costs in both the Civil Applications.

