

Delhi High Court

Merisant Company 2 Sarl & Anr. vs Equal Minerals & Anr. on 24 February, 2010

Author: Shiv Narayan Dhingra

    
    
             *          IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    
                                                           Date of Reserve: December 14, 2009
                                                               Date of Order: February 24, 2010
    
    + IA 4196 of 2003 in CS(OS) 895 of 2005
    %                                                                                24.02.2010
           MERISANT COMPANY 2 SARL AND ANR.                          ...PLAINTIFFS
           Through: Mr. Manav Kumar, Advocate
    
            Versus
    
            EQUAL MINERALS & ANR.                                    ...DEFENDANTS
            Through: Mr. U.S. Sharma, Advocates
    
    
            JUSTICE SHIV NARAYAN DHINGRA
    
    1.      Whether reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment?             YES
    
    2.      To be referred to the reporter or not?                                            YES
    
    3.      Whether judgment should be reported in Digest?                                    YES
    
    
            ORDER
    

1\. By this order, I shall dispose of an application under Order 39 Rules 1 &
2 of Civil Procedure Code (CPC) preferred by the plaintiffs for grant of
injunction against the defendants in respect of use of trademark EQUAL. It is
submitted by the counsel for plaintiffs that the plaintiffs were engaged in
manufacturing and marketing of granulated sweetener under the trademark EQUAL.
The trademark of plaintiffs EQUAL was a well-known trademark in India and
other countries of the world. It was adopted by plaintiffs' predecessor in US
in the year 1979 and major commercial sales started in 1981. The plaintiffs'
product was the first aspartame based low calories sugar substitute ever
marketed and this product was being marketed in various parts of the world
including India and the trademark EQUAL was exclusively associated with the
business of plaintiffs. The reputation of the plaintiff's trademark EQUAL even
extended to the cognate and allied goods being sold at the same counter
manufactured by the same manufacturer. This trademark EQUAL was registered
vide No.376816 of 9th June, 1981 in Class 1 in respect of Synthetic low
calorie sweetening preparations and was advertised in Trade Mark Journal
No.850 dated 1st February 1986. The trademark EQUAL was registered under Class
30 on 4th May, 1987 in respect of food products (trademark was advertised in
Trade Mark Journal No.970 dated 1 st November, 1989 at page No.994). Another
application for registration of trademark under Class 5 was pending
registration since 4th May, 1987. It is submitted that on account of priority
in adoption, long, continuous and extensive use of the trademark EQUAL in
India and other parts of the world, the plaintiffs and predecessor have
acquired and retained an exclusive right to use CS(OS) 895/2005 Merisant
Company 2 SARL & Anr. v. Equal Minerals & Anr. Page 1 Of 5 trademark EQUAL in
respect of the sweeteners as well as other cognate and allied goods. It is
further submitted that the plaintiffs spent huge amount on advertisements of
trademark EQUAL and total sale figures of Plaintiff Company all over the world
bearing the said trademark EQUAL were considerably high. Defendant no.1 was
manufacturing and marketing mineral water and sparkling sold and selling the
same under the trademark EQUAL. Plaintiff also learnt that defendants had
applied for registration of the trademark EQUAL under various classes under
the name and address of defendant no.2. Defendants no.1 and 2 were both owned
by Narang family. Plaintiffs learnt about defendants' application for
registration of trademark EQUAL in the year 2002 and learnt that the
defendants have applied for registration of trademark EQUAL in Classes 1, 3,
4, 11, 25, 27, 29, 31 & 32\. It is submitted that the defendants trademark
EQUAL was deceptively similar to the trademark of plaintiffs and was in
similar style and thus defendants were guilty of infringement of trademark of
plaintiffs. Defendants were also guilty of passing off or enabling others to
pass off their goods and business as the goods and business of plaintiffs
because of user of trademark EQUAL, therefore, defendants were causing loss
and there was likelihood of other losses being suffered in the business of
plaintiffs and reputation of plaintiffs. The defendants were also liable to
render the account to ascertain the loss.

2\. In reply to this application it is submitted by defendants that defendants
trademark 'EQUAL with a geometrical sign of EQUAL(=) was in use since July,
1988 and it was registered in Class 12 since 9th December, 1988, well within
the knowledge of plaintiffs. This trademark was registered in favour of
defendants by Trademark Registry after a thorough search. The trademark was
initially got registered by defendants in respect of the plastic auto parts.
The defendants had started their business under the name of M/s Narang
Technoplast and got this trademark registered when the plaintiffs were not
even known anywhere and there was no other company using trademark 'EQUAL'.
Thus, the question of adopting trademark pertaining to plaintiff did not
arise. Defendants obtained further registration of trademark EQUAL in respect
of cutlery, spoons in Class 8 & 12\. These registrations were in the name of
M/s Narang Technoplast owned by Shri Ashok Narang. In the year 1995, Mr. Ashok
Narang formed another sole proprietary firm under the name and style of M/s
EQUAL MINERALS in order to set up a business of packaged drinking water and
sparkling soda and started its unit at Rewari, Haryana which commenced
production in August, 2001. Defendant no.1 continued to use the trademark
EQUAL in respect of mineral water, sparkling soda since August, 2001 and also
continued the family business. The EQUAL MINERAL and EQUAL PLASTICS PVT. LTD
were family business of Mr. Ashok Narang and his family members in respect of
Plastic bottles, mineral water and plastic Auto Parts and the trademark EQUAL
was being used since July, 1988 exclusively by defendants for its products.

CS(OS) 895/2005 Merisant Company 2 SARL & Anr. v. Equal Minerals & Anr. Page 2
Of 5

3\. It is submitted that the plaintiff's allegations of passing off/
infringement were baseless. The plaintiff had no reputation in India neither
he had copyright over the design of word 'EQUAL'. The trademark EQUAL in
respect of mineral and aerated water was granted to the plaintiff only on 20th
March, 2003, much after the trademark EQUAL was registered in favour of
defendant.

4\. It is also submitted that there was no evidence of user of trademark EQUAL
by the plaintiffs in India. All documents filed by the plaintiffs along with
the application and along with the plaint only showed that the product of
plaintiffs was being sold and marketed outside India viz. USA and Europe and
the plaintiffs had no sale in India. The sales were disclosed in dollars and
that itself shows that the sales were outside India. Plaintiffs had also not
placed on record advertisements of its products in any newspaper or magazine
in India. All the advertisements placed on record are only of US and the
illustrations filed by the plaintiff also are of US. It is stated that mere
registration of trademark EQUAL by the plaintiff in India does not amount to
the use of the trademark EQUAL in India and there was no evidence of
transboarder reputation of plaintiff's trademark in India. The copy of
advertisements filed by the plaintiff does not show that the plaintiff had any
reputation or even tried to create any reputation in India.

5\. It is argued by the defendants that the description of the goods as well
as business activities of the plaintiffs is absolutely different from the
defendants products. The product 'Aspartame based low calories sweetener'
manufactured by the plaintiffs was a pharmaceutical preparation. The
plaintiffs' product 'Low Calories Sweeteners-Aspartame' is used under medical
advice only by a limited class of people i.e. diabetic patients or the
consumers who want to be on low calories sweetener in order to avoid putting
on more body weight. Whereas the defendants' goods being Mineral Water, and
Sparkling Soda for general use and purpose cannot be said to be identical with
and or deceptively similar to plaintiffs product in any manner. Thus, no case
of passing off of the goods of defendants as that of plaintiff was made out
because the defendant trademark EQUAL had its own reputation in India and
defendants had a goodwill of its products in India. The defendants trademark
was also not identical or similar to that of the plaintiffs. Defendants were
using Geometrical sings of EQUAL (=)under the word EQUAL. Even otherwise,
defendants' products or any product similar to that of defendants was not even
manufactured by the plaintiffs. Neither a case of infringement was made out
against the defendants because trademark EQUAL was registered in favour of
defendants and defendants were using the trademark EQUAL in its own right in
view of Section 28 of the Trademark Act and hence defendants have a right to
use the trademark EQUAL. Defendants trademark was a registered trademark and
hence no occasion for infringement would lie.

CS(OS) 895/2005 Merisant Company 2 SARL & Anr. v. Equal Minerals & Anr. Page 3
Of 5

6\. In order to grant an interim injunction under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2
CPC, party has to prove three elements. First is that it has a good prima
facie case, second that in case injunction is not granted, it will suffer
irreparable loss and injury and the third is that the balance of convenience
lies in its favour. There is no doubt that the plaintiffs trademark EQUAL was
registered in US and several other countries including India as is reflected
from the documents but there is no evidence that the plaintiffs was having any
public acknowledgment or a reputation in India. The copies of advertisements
placed on record by the plaintiffs show that these advertisements were
inserted in Journals and Magazines of US. Plaintiffs have not placed on record
even a single advertisement inserted in Indian newspapers, magazines, journals
etc. Plaintiffs have also not placed on record material to show that their
trademark was being used for any other products except Low Calories Sweeteners
in the world. All advertisements and other documents placed on record by
plaintiffs show that Low Calories Sweetener was the only product of the
plaintiffs which had been advertised or marketed. The plaintiffs had been
propagating about its 'Low Calories Sweeteners-Aspartame based' on account of
its deictic value and claiming that it was a substitute of sugar with almost
no calorie and may be used as a Sweetener for all kinds of food products
consumed by people. The documents also show that the plaintiffs never
published their advertisements in any Indian languages. All advertisements are
in English and meant for those who are health conscious or have sugar problems
or want to reduce their weight. The bills filed by the plaintiffs do not
reflect sales or business in India. The plaintiffs only filed consolidated
sale figures, without reflecting as to what were their sales in India. No
documents have been filed to show that the plaintiffs had any sales in India
reflecting business or reputation of plaintiffs in India in respect of its
trademark EQUAL. Merely registration of a trademark, without marketing the
products under it and without use of trademark, does not constitute a prima
facie case in favour of plaintiffs.

7\. The defendants were in the business of Mineral Water and Sparkling Soda.
The defendants products is likely to be sold at those places where there would
be no scope of plaintiffs products being sold. Plaintiffs products would be
available either at grocery stores or with the chemists whereas defendants
products would be available at petrol pumps, restaurants, local shops, even at
traffic signals and movable-cart shops. The consumer of plaintiffs products
are naturally an elite class persons who are calorie conscious and would like
to use it in place of sugar. Such persons purchase the same with advice of
doctors or some friend. 'Low Calories Sweeteners-Aspartame based' are not
bought by people as a common use item without recommendations. In view of the
above, I consider that the plaintiffs do not have a prima facie case in their
favour.

CS(OS) 895/2005 Merisant Company 2 SARL & Anr. v. Equal Minerals & Anr. Page 4
Of 5

8\. Admittedly, the plaintiffs are not in the business of selling mineral
water and sparkling soda. Any kind of sale of products of defendants was not
going to reduce the sale of the products of the plaintiffs resulting into any
loss to the plaintiffs because plaintiffs are not in the business of mineral
water and sparkling soda. Nor it is the claim of plaintiffs that it was
selling mineral water. Thus, there is no question of any loss much less
irreparable loss being suffered by plaintiffs because of sale of mineral water
or other products like plastic bottles or auto parts by defendants for which
defendants' trademark is registered.

9\. The balance of convenience also does not lie in faovur of plaintiffs. As
far as India is concerned, plaintiffs have not even prima facie been able to
show that they have any reputation in India which was going to suffer because
of use of trademark EQUAL by defendants. Moreover, defendants were using this
trademark since 1988 i.e. for above 20 years which itself shows that the
balance of convenience would lie in favour of defendants and not in favour of
plaintiffs. The defendants companies are registered in India. Defendants
applied for registration of trademark and this trademark was registered after
thorough search by the trademark Registry. EQUAL is not a coined word and it
is a common word and it can come to mind of anybody that why not EQUAL should
be used as trademark. It can be a coincidence that plaintiffs started use of
word EQUAL in USA and defendants used the same in India at different times.
That does not create any balance of convenience in faovur of plaintiffs and
against the defendants. I, therefore, find no force in this application under
Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC made by plaintiffs. The application is hereby
dismissed.

CS(OS) 895 of 2005 List this matter before Regular Bench, subject to orders of
Hon'ble the Chief Justice, for 11th March, 2010.

    
    
    February 24, 2010                                                   SHIV NARAYAN DHINGRA J.
    rd
    
    
    
    
    CS(OS) 895/2005          Merisant Company 2 SARL & Anr. v. Equal Minerals & Anr. Page 5 Of 5
     

