

Delhi High Court

Yahoo!, Inc. vs Akash Arora & Anr. on 19 February, 1999

Equivalent citations: 1999 IIAD Delhi 229, 78 (1999) DLT 285

Author: . M Sharma

Bench: . M Sharma

ORDER Dr. M.K. Sharma, J.

1\. The present suit has been instituted by the plaintiff against the
defendants seeking for a decree of permanent injunction restraining the
defendants, their partners, servants and agents from operating any business
and/or selling, offering for sale, advertising and in any manner dealing in
any services or goods on the Internet or otherwise under the trademark/domain
name 'Yahooindia.Com' or any other mark/domain name which is identical with or
deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trademark 'Yahoo!' and also for
rendition of accounts and damages. The plaintiff has also filed an application
under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 CPC praying for an ad interim temporary injunction
restraining the defendants from operating any business and/or selling,
offering for sale, advertising and in any manner dealing in any services or
goods on the Internet or otherwise under the trademark/domain name
'Yahooindia.Com' or any other mark/domain name which is identical with or
deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trademark 'Yahoo!'.

2\. Mr. Kapil Sibbal, counsel appearing for the plaintiff submitted that the
plaintiff is the owner of the trademark 'Yahoo!' and domain name 'Yahoo.Com',
which are very well-known and have acquired distinctive reputation and
goodwill and the defendants by adopting the name 'Yahooindia' for similar
services have been passing off the services and goods of the defendants as
that of the plaintiff's trademark 'Yahoo!' which is identical to or
deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trademark. It was submitted that a
domain name/trademark adopted by the plaintiff is entitled to equal protection
against passing off as in the case of a trademark. In support of his
submission, the learned counsel heavily relied upon the ratio of the decisions
in Marks & Spencer Vs. One-in-a-Million; reported in 1998 FSR 265. It was
submitted that the trademarks and domain names are not mutually exclusive and
there is an overlap between the trademarks and services rendered under domain
names and thus by dopting a deceptively similar trademark 'Yahooindia', the
defendants have verbatim copied the format, contents, lay out, colour scheme,
source code of the plaintiff's prior created regional section on India at
Yahoo.com.sg and thus passing off the services of the defendants as that of
the plaintiff. He submitted that Internet users are familiar with the practice
of companies to select domain names that incorporate their company name, well-
known trademark, and/or product/service name and generally attempt to locate a
particular company's Web site by simply typing in www.(company name).com or
www.(product name).com when they are unsure of the Internet address of the
Company. According to him, thus, it would not be unusual for someone looking
for an authorised 'Yahoo!' site with India-specific content to type in
'Yahooindia.com',i.e., the defendants' domain name and thereby instead of
reaching the Internet site of the plaintiff, the said person would reach the
Internet site of the fendants'. He further submitted that the plaintiff in
fact provides extensive content on India, both on its Yahoo! Asia site and at
its main Yahoo.com site, under the categories "Regional:Countries:India". It
was submitted that the defendants being in the same line of activity as that
of the plaintiff, the defendants have tried to be 'cyber-squatters' and, thus,
dishonesty is writ large as the defendants have adopted a rademark similar to
that of the plaintiff which is 'Yahoo.com' which has acquired a distinctive
name, goodwill and reputation.

3\. Mr. Harish Malhotra, counsel appearing for the defendants, however,
refuted the aforesaid allegations and submitted that the trademark laws in
India relate to goods and, therefore, the provisions of Indian Trade Marks Act
are not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case which
deals only with goods. It was also submitted that the trademark/domain name
'Yahoo!' of the plaintiff is not registered in India and, therefore, there
cannot be an action for infringement of the registered mark nor could there be
any action of passing off as the services rendered both by the plaintiff and
the defendants cannot be said to be goods within the meaning of the Indian
Trade Marks Act which is concerned only with goods and not services and thus
the decisions relied upon by the counsel appearing for the plaintiff are not
relevant for the purpose of deciding the present case. He further submitted
that the word "Yahoo!" is a general dictionary word and is not vented and,
therefore, it could not have acquired any distinctiveness and since the
defendants have been using disclaimer, there could be no chance of any
deception and thus, no action of passing of is maintainable against the
defendants. He also submitted that the persons using Internet and seeking to
reach the Internet site are all technically educated and literate persons and,
therefore, there is no possibility of any customer reaching the Internet site
of the defendants with the intention of reaching the Internet site of the
plaintiff and thus, it is not a case of unwary customer which is applicable in
a case of infringement and passing off of the trademark. In the light of the
aforesaid submissions, let me now consider as to whether the plaintiff has
been able to make out a prima facie case for grant of temporary injunction as
sought for in the application.

4\. The domain name 'Yahoo.com' is registered in the plaintiff's favour with
Network Solution Inc since 18th January, 1995. The trademark 'Yahoo!' and its
variance are registered or pending registration in 69 countries of the world.
As is disclosed from the records, an application for registration of the
trademark of the plaintiff 'Yahoo!' is also pending in India. The plaintiff is
a global Internet media rendering services under the domain name/trade name
'Yahoo!'. The Internet is a global collection of computer networks linking
millions of public and private computers around the world. The Internet is now
recognised as an international system, a communication medium that allows
anyone from any part of the lobe with access to the Internet to freely
exchange information and share data. The Internet provides information about
various corporations, products as also on various subjects like educational,
entertainment, commercial, government activities and services. A computer or
evice that is attached to the Internet has an address which is known as Domain
name. The same is established by using suffix 'com' and registering with
Network Solutions Inc. A domain name identifies a computer or a Sub Network of
computers in the Internet. One way oestablish a presence on the Internet is by
placing a web page. The plaintiff, it is stated, was amongst the first in the
field to have a domain name 'Yahoo' and also to start a Web directory and
provide search services. In June, 1994, the said directory was named 'Yahoo!'
which is a dictionary connotation which was adopted by the plaintiff and is
providing the said service at the Internet under the domain name/trade name
'Yahoo!'.

5\. The plaintiff is admittedly providing various services including services
on the regional section also. In view of growing popularity of 'Yahoo!' of the
plaintiff, it was submitted that many third parties started imitations by
using sound-alike names in order to ppropriate the reputation and goodwill
acquired by the plaintiff in respect of he trademark/name 'Yahoo!' in India
and that the defendants is one of such parties who in order to appropriate the
reputation and goodwill acquired by the plaintiff in respect of the said
rademark 'Yahoo!' adopted the trademark/domain name 'Yahooindia.com' for their
Internet site although their trading name is Net link Internet Solutions.

6\. Let me, therefore, examine the rival contentions and defense raised by the
defendants ne by one.

7\. One of the submissions was that the domain name 'Yahoo!' of the plaintiff
is not used n relations to goods, but, in relations to services and since
services are not included within the ambit of section under Sections 27(2) and
29 of the Trade Mark Merchandise Act (referred to as the 'Act' in short) and,
therefore, the plaintiff cannot plead for action of passing off in relation to
such services. In support of his submission, the learned counsel drew my
attention to the provisions of Section 2(5), Sections 27, 29 and Section 30 of
the Act and contended that only goods are recognised for the purpose of
preferring an action for infringement or passing off. Admittedly the present
case is not for an action for infringement of a registered trademark, but, an
action for passing off. The law relating to passing off is fairly well-
settled. The principle underlying the action is that no man is entitled to
carry on his business in such a way as to lead to the belief that he is
carrying on the business of another man or to lead to believe that he is
carrying on or has any connection with the business carried on by another man.
It is also well-established that passing off action is a common law remedy.
There are a plethora of cases wherein it has been held that the principles of
common law govern actions of passing off and have been recognised by Section
27(2) and Section 106 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. In this
commentary, reference may be made to the well-known reatise on the law of
Trademarks and passing off, of P. Narayanan. In paragraph 25.102 of the fourth
edition of the said treatise, it is stated thus:-

"The general principles of the law applicable to cases where a person uses a
name or intends to use a name which is likely to deceive and divert the
business of the laintiff to the defendant or cause confusion between the two
businesses are analogous to he principles which are applicable to ordinary
cases of passing off relating to sale of goods."

8\. Reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Monetary Over seas
Vs. Montari Industries Ltd.; reported in 1996 PTC 142, wherein it was found
that the defendant adopted a trade name that was identical to that of the
plaintiff and the court while injuncting the defendant held thus:-

"When a defendant does business under a name which is sufficiently close to
the name under which the plaintiff is trading and that name has acquired a
reputation and the public at large is likely to be misled that the defendant's
business is the business of the plaintiff, or is a branch or department of the
plaintiff, the defendant is liable for an action in passing off."

Similarly, there are other cases wherein the services rendered by a person
have been included within the scope of passing off. In this connection,
reference may be made to the decisions in Neev Investments & Trading Pvt. Ltd.
Vs. Sasia Express Couriers; reported in 1993 PTC 184. In Ellora Industries Vs.
Banarsi Dass & Ors.; reported in 1981 PTC 46, it was held that the plaintiffs
and the defendants are direct competitors and 'Ellora' as a business name
suggests association with the plaintiffs' registered trade mark and, it is
suggestive of the fact that the goods come from the same source and,
therefore, is a misrepresentation for business purposes as to the origin of
goods which the defendants manufacture in the course of their business. In
paragraph 12 of the said judgment, it was held thus:

PASSING OFF:

"12. The purpose of this tort is to protect commercial goodwill to ensure that
peoples' business reputations are not exploited. Since business "goodwill is
an asset, and therefore species of property the law protects it against
encroachment as such. The tort is based on economic policy, the need to
encourage enterprise and to ensure commercial stability. It secures a
reasonable area of monopoly to traders. It is thus complementary to trade mark
law which is founded upon statute rather than common law. But there is a
difference between statute law relating to trade marks and the passing off
action; for, while registration of relevant mark itself gives title to the
registered owner, the onus in a passing off action lies upon the plaintiff to
establish the existence of the business reputation which he seeks to protect.
The asset protected is the reputation the plaintiffs' business has in the
relevant mark. This is a complex thing. It is manifested in the various
indicia which lead the client or customer to associate the business with the
plaintiff; such as the name of the business, whether real or adopted, the
mark, design, make up or colour of the plaintiffs goods, the distinctive
characteristics of services he supplies or the nature of his special
processes. And it is around encroachments upon such indica that passing off
actions arise. What is protected is an economic asset:" (emphasis is mine)

9\. Lord Halsbury defined the tort of passing off in Reddaway Vs. Banham;
reported in 1696 A.C. 199. In paragraph 31 of the aforesaid decision of this
Court in Ellora Industries (supra) it was said that it is not always necessary
that there must be in existence goods of that other man with which the
defendant seeks to confuse his own. Reference was also made to the observation
of Lord Greene M.R., who observed that:-

"Passing off may occur in cases where the plaintiffs do not in fact deal with
the offending goods".

10\. Therefore, it is obvious that where the parties are engaged in common or
overlapping fields of activity, the competition would take place. If the two
contesting parties are involved in the same line or similar line of business,
there is grave and immense possibility for confusion and deception and,
therefore, there is probability of sufferance of damage. In this case also
both the plaintiff and the defendants have common field of activty. They are
operating on the Web site and providing information almost similar in nature.
In Card service International Inc. Vs. McGee; reported in 42 USPQ 2d 1850, it
was held that the domain name serve same function as the trademark and is not
a mere address or like finding number on the Internet and, therefore, it is
entitled to equal protection as trademark. It was further held that a domain
name is more than a mere Internet address for it also identifies the Internet
site to those who reach it, much like a person's name identifies a particular
person or more relevant to trade mark disputes, a company's name identifies a
specific company. Accordingly, the Court granted the injunction upon
consideration fo the relevant law namely, Section 32 of the Lanham Act. In the
facts of the said case it was held that Cardservice International's customers
who wish to take advantage of its Internet services, but do not know its
domain name are likely to assume that "cardservice.com" belongs to ardservice
International. It goes on to hold that these customers would instead reach
McGee and see a home page for "Card Service" and thereby many would assume
that they have reached Cardservice International.

11\. In Marks & Spencer Vs. One-in-a-Million; reported in 1998 FSR 265, it was
held that any person who deliberately registers a domain name on account of
its similarity to the name, brand name or trademark of an unconnected
commercial organisation must expect to find himself on the receiving end of an
injunction to restrain the threat of passing off, and the njunction will be in
terms which will make the name commercially useless to the dealer. It was held
in the said decision that the name 'marksandspencer' could not have been
chosen for any other reason than that it was associated with the well-known
retailing group. The decision further goes on to say that where the value of a
name consists solely in its resemblance to the name or trade mark of another
enterprise, the Court will normally assume that the public is likely to be
deceived, for why else would the defendants choose it? It was also said that
someone seeking or coming upon a website called http:// marksandspencer.co.uk
would naturally assume that it was that of the plaintiffs. Thus, it is seen
that although the word 'services' may not find place in the expression used in
Sections 27 and 29 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, services rendered
have come to be recognised for an action of passing off. Thus law of passing
off is an action under the common law which also is given a statutory
recognition in the Trade Mark Act. Thus in the context and light of the
aforesaid decisions and the development in the concept of law of passing off,
it is too late in the day to submit that passing off action cannot be
maintained as against services as it could be maintained for goods.

12\. The services of the plaintiff under the trademark/domain name 'Yahoo!'
have been widely publicised and written about globally. In an Internet
service, a particular Internet site could be reached by anyone anywhere in the
world who proposes to visit the said Internet site. With the advancement and
progress in technology, services rendered in the Internet has also come to be
recognised and accepted and are being given protection so as to protect such
provider of service from passing off the services rendered by others as that
of the laintiff. As a matter of fact in a matter where services rendered
through the domain name in the Internet, a very alert vigil is necessary and a
strict view is to be taken for its easy access and reach by anyone from any
corner of the globe. There can be no two opinions that the two marks/domain
names 'Yahoo!' of the plaintiff and 'Yahooindia' of the defendant are almost
similar except for use of the suffix 'India' in the latter. The degree of the
similarity of the marks usually is vitally important and significant in an
action for passing off for in such a case there is every possibility and
likelihood of confusion and deception being caused. When both the domain names
are considered, it is crystal clear that the two names being almost identical
or similar in nature, there is every possibility of an Internet user being
confused and deceived in believing that both the domain names belong to one
common source and connection, although the two belong to two different
concerns.

13\. Counsel for the defendant also argued that the Internet users are
sophisticated users and only literate people who are able to ascertain can
approach the actual Internet site that they intend to visit. The said
submission does not appear to have force for even if an individual is a
sophisticated user of the Internet, he may be an unsophisticated consumer of
information and such a person may find his/her way to the defendant Internet
site which provides almost similar type of information as that of the
plaintiff and thereby confusion could be created in the mind of the said
person who intends to visit the Internet site of the plaintiff, but, in fact
reaches the Internet site of the defendant.

14\. It is also submitted that the defendant has been issuing a disclaimer.
The said disclaimer being used by the defendants cannot eliminate the problem
, for it was observed in the case of Jews for Jesus Vs. Brodsky; reported in
46 USPQ 2d 1652 that due to the nature of Internet use, defendant's
appropriation of plaintiff's mark as a domain name and home page address
cannot adequately be remedied by a disclaimer. It was also observed that
considering the vastness of the Internet and its relatively recent
availability to the general public, many Internet users are not sophisticated
enough to distinguish between the subtle difference in the domain names of the
parties. The ratio and principle laid down in the aforesaid decision equally
apply to the facts of the present case with full force.

15\. Counsel for the defendants also submitted that there is sufficient added
matter, namely, addition of the word 'India" to distinguish its domain name
from that of the plaintiff and in support of his submission, the learned
counsel relied upon the decision in Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma Vs.
Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories; . In Ruston and Hornby Ltd. Vs.
Zamindara Engineering Co.; reported in 1970 S.C.1649, it was held that if
there be close resemblance between the two marks and they are deceptively
similar to each other, the word 'India' added to one mark is of no
consequence. In that case the two marks were 'Ruston' and 'Ruston India'.
Besides the plaintiff itself is using regional names after Yahoo! like
Yahoo.CA (for Canada) and Yahoo.FR (for France). Thus, there is every
possibility of the Internet users to believe that Yahoo india is another one
in the series of Yahoo marks/names and thereby there is every possibility of
confusion being created and thereby preventing these users from reaching the
Internet site of the plaintiff. The decision in Vishnu das Trading Vs. Vizier
Sultan; reported in 1996 PTC 152 at 535 relied upon by the defendant deals
with the rectification of registration of a trademark and thus may not be an
appropriate case for the present case. The decisions relied upon by the
counsel for the defendant are not applicable to the facts of the present case
and have no application in the facts and circumstances of the present case as
the services offered in the present case by the plaintiff and the defendant
are identical since both of them provide Internet programs and on line
information to users regarding various categories of applications like arts,
humanities, employment, entertainment, etc.

16\. The contention of the learned counsel for the defendant that the word
'Yahoo!' is a dictionary word and, therefore, cannot be appropriated as a
domain name/trademark is also misplaced as there are number of such words
being used by various companies as their trademarks. The said words although
are dictionary words have acquired uniqueness and distinctiveness and are
associated with the business of the concerned company and such words have come
to receive maximum degree of protection by courts as was done also in the case
of 'WHIRLPOOL'. In the said decision namely N.R. Dongre Vs. Whirlpool Corp.;
reported in 1996 PTC (16), a Division Bench of this Court recognised the
distinctiveness and uniqueness of the word 'WHIRLPOOL' which was subsequently
upheld by the Supreme Court in its decision reported in 1996 PTC 583.
'WHIRLPOOL' is otherwise a dictionary word and was not registered in India as
a trademark. The court considering the entire gamut of the case held that the
reputation of the trademark 'WHIRLPOOL' in respect of washing machines has
travelled ansborder to India and, therefore, although the respondents are not
the registered roprietor of the 'WHIRLPOOL' in India in respect of washing
machines can maintain action of passing off against the appellants in respect
of the use of the same which has been registered in their favour in respect of
the same goods. In the said decision, it was also held that registration of a
trademark under the Act would be irrelevant in an action of passing off.

17\. The defense as raised in the present suit by the defendants is,
therefore, prima facie found to be without any merit. The counsel for the
defendants during the course of his ubmissions submitted that the defendants
have not been using or copying the contents of the programmes of the plaintiff
and have no objection even if such an injunction is granted estraining the
defendants from using or copying the contents of the prgrammes of the
plaintiff. In my considered opinion and as discussed above, the plaintiff has
been able to make out a prima facie case for grant of ad interim injunction in
its favour and, therefore, an ad interim injunction is passed in favour of the
plaintiff and against the defendants restraining the defendants their
partners, servants and agents from operating any business or selling, offering
for sale, advertising and/or in any manner dealing in service or goods on the
Internet or otherwise under the trademark/domain name 'Yahooindia.com' or any
other trademark/domain name which is identical with or deceptively similar to
the plaintiff trademark 'Yahoo!' till the disposal of the suit. The defendants
and all others acting on their behalf are further restrained from using and/or
copying the contents of the programmes of the plaintiff under the domain name
'Yahoo.com'.

18\. In terms of the aforesaid order, the application filed by the plaintiff
seeking for injunction stands disposed of. It is, however, made clear that all
opinions and views expressed in this order are my tentative and prima facie
view and shall not be treated as the final opinion on the merit of the case.

