

Delhi High Court

L.T. Overseas Ltd. vs Guruji Trading Co. And Anr. on 7 September, 2005

Equivalent citations: 123 (2005) DLT 503, 2005 (31) PTC 254 Del

Author: S K Kaul

Bench: S K Kaul

JUDGMENT Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.

1\. The plaintiff has filed a suit for decree of permanent injunction in
respect of trademark 'DAAWAT' and for damages. The plaintiff is a limited
company incorporated and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 engaged in
the business of processing ad selling of rice.

2\. The trademark 'DAAWAT' is stated to be adopted by the predecessor-in-
interest of the plaintiff but by virtue of an agreement dated 26.03.1999 the
rights were taken by the plaintiff for valuable consideration. The business is
stated to be carried to under the said trademark for the last 14 years and the
sale is not only in India but even in abroad.

3\. In para 8 of the plaint the sales made for the period of financial years
commencing from 1991-92 to 1998-99 have been given showing substantial sales
running into crores of rupees. In the last financial year before filing of the
suit a sum of Rs. 75 lahs is stated to have been spent on advertisement alone.

4\. Defendant No. 1 is stated to be a distributor and selling agent of
defendant No. 2 under the trademark 'DAVAT' carrying on the same business. The
style of the writing of the word 'DAVAT' is stated to have been copied from
the artistic work of thplaintiff bearing the trademark 'DAAWAT'. The defendant
is alleged to have been a distributor/selling agent of the plaintiff and thus
has full knowledge of goodwill and reputation of the trademark of the
plaintiff. The product rice is also state do be such which is sold of the
counter.

5\. It is in view of the aforesaid circumstances, a decree of permanent
injunction has been sought for restraining the defendants from using the
trademark 'DAVAT' or any other trademark which may identical or deceptively
similar to the trademark 'DAAAT' of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has also
sought injunction against the defendants from infringing their copyright in
the artistic work 'DAAWAT' and from passing off the product of the defendants
as that of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has requested for an order of
destruction of all the materials having the trademark 'DAVAT' and have sought
rendition of accounts of the profits made by the defendants which have been
estimated at Rs. 50 lakhs.

6\. The defendants entered appearance and filed their written statement.
Defendant No. 1 claims that it has been selling the products of defendant No.
2 under the trade name 'DAVAT'. Other than alleging this, there is only a mere
denial in the written statement. Defendant No. 2, however, in its written
statement have alleged that they have adopted the trademark 'DAVAT' in the
year 1988 and the application for the registration of the trademark is pending
before the Registrar of Trademarks, Mumbai. Defendant No. 2 claims prior user
of trademark 'DAVAT'.

7\. The defendants though appeared at the initial stage, subsequently stopped
appearing and on 23.02.2004 defendants were proceeded ex parte as it is
recorded by the learned Judge that after 28.05.2002 there is no representation
on behalf of the defendants

8\. The plaintiff has filed affidavit of evidence of Mr. Ashwini Arora,
Director, who has proved the board resolution authorising the institution of
suit and the same is exhibited P-1. It may be noticed that the plaintiff has
been granted leave to lead secondary evidence in respect of certain documents
in terms of the order dated 25.07.2005 including copies of the invoices from
1989-97 as also certain other communications since documents are stated to
have been misplaced. The witness has confirmed the averments made in the
plaint and has proved the various documents to show acquisition of rights by
the plaintiff in the trademark 'DAAWAT' by proving the assignment deed dated
25.07.2003 which is exhibited as P-3. The sales have been proved through
copies of invoices which are collectively exhibited as P-4 and the sample of
the trademark 'DAAWAT' filed with the plaint has been proved as exhibit P-5.

9\. The plaintiff was granted interim relief on 24.12.1999 at the stage of
issuance of summons in the suit. A consideration of the aforesaid facts show
that there is phonetic similarity between 'DAAWAT' and 'DAVAT' in respect of
the product rice which is traded of the counter. This phonetic similarity is
of such a kind that a normal customer is likely to be deceived into purchasing
the product of defendant on the assumption that it is of the plaintiff. The
plaintiff has a proprietary right in the trademark 'DAAWAT' and the fact that
defendant No. 1 was the agent of the plaintiff shows it is an obvious attempt
on the part of the defendants, who have full knowledge of the goodwill of the
plaintiff to utilise the name of the plaintiff in an illegal manner. The
plaintiff has filed details showing sale running into crores apart from
substantial expenses on advertisement. I am thus of the considered view that
the plaintiff is entitled to the decree of injunction against the defendants
in this behalf.

10\. In so far as the issue of damages is concerned, learned counsel for the
plaintiff has drawn my attention to para 15 of the affidavit of evidence where
it is stated that the defendants have deliberately stayed away from the
proceedings with the object of not producing their books of accounts, so that
damages could not be assessed against them. The plaintiff does not have access
to the books of accounts of the defendants but the fact that the defendants
have sold the goods under the trademark 'DAVAT' is itself sufficient to
establish that loss has been caused to the plaintiff. The defendants
themselves states that they have been trading under the trademark 'DAVAT'. The
plaintiff claims a token damages and compensation of Rs. 5 lakhs as it isot
possible to determine the exact nature of damages. Learned counsel in this
behalf has referred to the judgment of the learned Single Judge of this Court
in Relaxo Rubber Limited and Anr. v. Selection Footwear and Anr. 1999 PTC (19)
578, dealing with suca situation. That was a case with a similar position
where the defendant did not file the written statement after taking time for
the same and a decree was being passed under Order 8 Rule 10 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908. Tentative damages were claimed at Rs. 5 lakhs and Rs. 3
lakhs were awarded as damages.

11\. Learned counsel also referred to another judgment of the same learned
Single Judge of this Court in Hindustan Machines v. Royal Electrical Applies
1999 PTC (19) 685, where also a sum of Rs. 3 lakhs was awarded as damages.

12\. In view of the aforesaid judgments and keeping in mind the fact that the
defendants have deliberately kept away from this Court which in-turn has
prevented this Court from assessing exact damages on account of non-disclosure
of the books of accounts of the defendants, I consider it appropriate to grant
damages to the tune of Rs. 3 lakhs.

13\. A decree for permanent injunction is passed in favor of the plaintiff and
against the defendants jointly/severally restraining defendants from
themselves, their servants, agents, dealers, partners, proprietors, stockiest,
representatives and all other persons acting on their behalf from using the
trademark 'DAVAT' or any other trademark which may be identical or deceptively
similar to the trademark 'DAAWAT' of the plaintiff or from infringing the
copyright of the plaintiff in their artistic work 'DAAWAT'. The decree of
permanent injunction is also passed in favor of the plaintiff and against the
defendant jointly/severally from passing off their goods (rice) as that of the
plaintiff.

14\. The plaintiff is also entitled to decree for recovery of damages in the
sum of Rs. 3 lakhs.

15\. The plaintiff shall be entitled to costs.

16\. The decree sheet be drawn up accordingly.

IA Nos. 12456/1999, 1500/2000 and 1501/2000No further directions are called
for in these applications in view of the suit being decreed.

The applications stand disposed of.

