

Delhi High Court

Marc Enterprises Pvt. Ltd. vs Five Star Electricals (India) And ... on 4
March, 2008

Author: S N Dhingra

Bench: S N Dhingra

ORDER Shiv Narayan Dhingra, J.

IA No. 5911/2005 in CS(OS) No. 1059/2005 and IA No. 1193/2006 in Counter Claim
No. 1349/2005

1\. The plaintiff filed the instant suit under Sections 134 and 135 of
Trademark Act, 1999 as well as under Section 51 of Indian Copyrights Act
seeking permanent injunction against the defendant alleging therein that the
defendant was infringing the trademark and logo of the plaintiff viz 'Marc'.

2\. It is submitted by the plaintiff that the plaintiff conceived and coined
word 'Marc' and started using it as its trademark as well as logo since 1981
and developed the goodwill and reputation under the above trademark and logo.
The plaintiff had become the owner of the trademark and logo because of
exclusive use and the goods of the plaintiff bearing this trademark were
distributed in major parts of the country. The plaintiff's trademark/logo
'Marc' was duly registered under the Trademark Act under No. 420735B in Class
'9' and under No. 420736 in Class '1' and 420737B in Class '7' on 16.4.1984.
The trademark was registered in respect of the goods under Class '7', '9' and
'11'. The trademark was renewed from time to time and the registration was
still valid. By virtue of the registration of this trademark in favor of the
plaintiff and by way of long use, the plaintiff had exclusive right over the
trademark within the meaning of Section 28 and 29 of the Trademark Act and the
plaintiff filed number of applications for registration of the trademark in
different classes. The plaintiff has been advertising and promoting this
trademark through different means and has given wide publicity to this
trademark through newspapers, trade literatures and trade hoardings. The
plaintiff also gave its sale figures starting from 1981-82. The total annual
sale figure during 1981-82 was Rs. 9,75,822/- and the sale figures for
2003-2004 was Rs. 14,65,02,583/-. There has been gradual increase in the sales
from 1981 to 2004 It is stated that the plaintiff was using highest standards
of business and quality and the trademark/logo 'Marc' of the plaintiff has
become distinctive indicative of the plaintiff and the plaintiff's goods and
business. It is alleged that defendant No. 1 and their authorized dealers were
using the trademark/logo 'Marc' in an identical and deceptively similar manner
as being used by the plaintiff with the same get up and make up for the goods
like electrical switches and accessories. Both plaintiff's and the defendants'
goods and business were same or similar and they are dealing with same line of
business in the market. The trademark of the defendant was bound to cause
deception and confusion in the normal course of business activities of the
plaintiff. The defendants adopted the trademark/logo 'Marc' out of greed with
a view to take advantage of the goodwill and reputation of the plaintiff and
to create a confusion amongst the market and the consumers. The trademark
adopted by the defendants amounted to indulgence in unfair trade and
competition and was a dishonest, tainted and ill-motivated. The defendants
were trying to cash in on the reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff and in
turn were damaging the reputation of the plaintiff. The defendants were guilty
of infringement of the trademark and logo of the plaintiff and were also
passing off of their goods as those of the plaintiff thereby the defendants
were violating not only the rights under the Trademark Act, 1999 but also
common law rights of the plaintiff. Due to the activities of the defendants,
the plaintiff was suffering tremendously in the business and goodwill and
intending buyers were being deceived. The plaintiff came across the goods of
the defendants towards the end of March 2005 being imitating trademark and the
plaintiff inquired in the market at its level that the defendant had started
commercially using the trademark only recently and the defendants were
carrying their activities in a clandestine and deceitful manner. It is alleged
that the defendants were not issuing any formal bills or invoices.

3\. In the application under Order 39 Rule 1 and 2 CPC, the plaintiff sought
ad interim injunction against the defendants restraining them from using the
trademark /logo 'Marc' or any other trademark or logo identical or deceptively
similar to that of the plaintiff.

4\. In written statement filed by the defendants, the defendants claimed that
the plaintiff was manufacturing certain electrical accessories and gadgets
under the Trademark 'Marc' whereas the defendant No. 1 was using the trademark
in respect of switches, sockets, holders, three pin plugs etc. The trademark
of the defendant No. 1 was entirely different in writing, style, get up,
layout, logo and colour combination from that of the plaintiff. There was no
infringement of the trademark of the plaintiff, neither action for passing off
of the goods was maintainable. The documents filed by the plaintiff show that
the plaintiff was manufacturer of water heaters and was marketing fans under
the trade names like Usha, Innova etc. The defendants were neither
manufacturing nor marketing electrical accessories as the one being marketed
by the plaintiff, therefore, no passing off action lies against the
defendants. It is further submitted that the plaintiff had no right or title
to sue the defendants since the trademark 'Marc' was registered in the name of
the defendant under Number 1012263 in Class '9' since April 2001 in a
different artistic style get up and lay out, which was entirely different from
that of the plaintiff. The plaintiff was neither manufacturing nor marketing
electrical accessories like switches, holders, distribution boxes etc, being
manufactured by the defendants and the goods of the plaintiff and defendants
were altogether different. It is further submitted that the word 'Marc' being
used by the plaintiff as well as by the defendants was not an invented or
coined word and it was only a mis-spelt form of the original word 'mark' and
word 'Marc' is in common use by several manufacturers in respect of the
electrical and electronic appliances/goods and plaintiff cannot claim to be
the sole proprietor of the word 'Marc'. The defendant had applied for
trademark 'Marc' for electrical switches, holders, sockets etc in Class '9' on
28.5.2001. The defendant received examiner 's report on 21st September 2002.
The defendant filed application of user and the application of the defendant
was advertised in Trademark Journal Mega-14 dated 25.10.2003. There was no
opposition to the registration by the plaintiff or anyone else within the
meaning or scope of Section 21 of the Trademark Act and, therefore, defendant
became the registered owner of the trademark 'Marc' for the goods being
manufactured by the defendants within the meaning of Section 28. The plaintiff
had no exclusive right to use the word 'Marc' in respect of the goods to that
of the plaintiff. All allegations made by the plaintiff against the defendants
were denied. It was denied that the defendant was selling the goods without
valid invoices and vouchers or that the defendants were infringing the
trademark and logo of the plaintiff or passing off its goods as that of the
plaintiff. It is submitted that the defendants were manufacturing their goods
as per ISI standard and were registered with ISI. They were manufacturing the
standard quality products and they have a stake in the quality of the goods
and the trademark 'Marc' in respect of the goods they were manufacturing. The
defendant No. 1 has been exclusively and uninterruptedly using the trademark
and logo 'Marc' since April 2001 and the claim of the plaintiff was false.

5\. The defendants also filed a counter claim against the plaintiff giving
same facts and praying an injunction against the plaintiff that the plaintiff
be restrained from using the trademark and logo 'Marc' in respect of the goods
like electrical switches, plugs, electrical holders, change over, distribution
boxes etc. with trademark 'Marc'. Similarly an application under Order 39 Rule
1 and 2 has been made by the defendants for permanent injunction has been made
in the counterclaim.

6\. I have perused the documents filed by the both parties. The documents
filed by the plaintiff would show that the plaintiff was using the word 'Marc'
for ceiling fans, exhaust fans, wall mounted fans, water heaters, oil heaters
and room heaters. The entire trade literatures of the plaintiff is in respect
of these items only. The plaintiff has also filed the defendant's catalogue in
respect of switches which show that the defendant was using the trademark
'Marc' for electrical switches, plugs, etc. In the registration certificate
filed by the plaintiff, different items for which it got the trademark
registered are given and these items are plugs, pressure cookers, milk
cookers, table lamp, electrical fans, bulb holders, lighting fixtures and
fittings installation, Florance tube etc. However, except for geysers, room
heaters, oil heater, fans, literature of invoices of no other item has been
placed on record being marketed or manufactured by the plaintiff. The
defendant, on the other hand, has placed on record its own trade literatures
and packing materials in respect of the goods being manufactured by it and the
defendant is manufacturing electrical switches, cut outs, plugs, holders,
change overs, regulators, sockets, tubes strips etc. The defendant has also
placed on record the registration of trademark 'Marc' under Class '9' for its
goods. It has also placed on record the other documents showing that the
trademark 'Marc' was not a coined word and was a commonly used word by several
other companies and manufacturers. A search from ROC has been placed on record
showing that at least 54 companies were having the word 'Marc' as their first
trade name coupled with other names and words. The plaintiff has also placed
on record Internet search in respect of the use of word 'Marc' by other
manufacturers and there are several manufacturers who use word 'Marc' either
as a trade name or as logo or as trademark in respect of different goods. He
has placed the list of at least 20 such manufacturers who were using the
trademark/logo of trade name 'Marc' for various goods.

7\. It is argued by counsel for the plaintiff that the plaintiff company M/s
Marc Enterprise Private Limited was using the trademark/logo 'Marc' for last
25 years and has earned goodwill and reputation. The trademark of the
plaintiff was registered with the Registrar even for those items which were
being manufactured by the defendant and since the plaintiff was a registered
proprietor of the trademark, the subsequent registration of the trademark
obtained by defendant, does not give a right to the defendant to use the
trademark 'Marc' for similar or same goods. The plaintiff was manufacturing
electrical appliances and the goods being manufactured by the defendant were
also electrical items and there was every possibility that the consumer would
consider that the goods manufactured by the defendant were goods of the
plaintiff. The plaintiff being the registered proprietor of the trademark has
exclusive right to use the trademark in respect of the goods and services in
respect of which the trademark was registered.

8\. On the other hand, counsel for the defendant has argued that the plaintiff
was not manufacturing any of the items being manufactured by the defendant.
The plaintiff has not placed on record a single document showing that it has
sold switches, holders, switch overs, plugs, sockets etc. and all invoices and
documents placed on record are in respect of electrical appliances like
heaters, fans etc. Since the trademark of the defendant was also registered,
the plaintiff cannot claim any exclusive right to restrain the defendant from
using the trademark 'Marc' for its own goods. It has also been submitted that
the visual representation of the trademark by the defendant was entirely
different to that of the plaintiff qua colour scheme and other aspects are
also quite different.

9\. A comparison of the trade literatures placed on record by the plaintiff
with that of the defendant would show that the defendant is not copying the
style and trademark of the plaintiff. While in case of plaintiff, all the
letters are of same height and written in a plain simple and bold manner and
there is a circle before word 'Marc' wherein word 'M' is made at the bottom of
the circle in an artistic manner. The literatures of the defendant shows that
the defendant has used the word 'Marc' in an altogether different manner. The
first and last word are of the same height and in between the two words 'a'
and 'r' are half the size and width and above that is a 'thunder' sign and the
words 'tm' are written above the word 'c'. There is no circle before 'marc'
The trade literatures also shows that defendant has shown only those items
which are being manufactured by the defendant like electrical switches,
sockets, switch over, regulators etc. There is no similarity either qua colour
combination or visual representation of the two marks. The plea of the
plaintiff that the defendant was copying its logo and had also copied the
colour combination, colour scheme, is prima facie baseless.

10\. It is an undisputed fact that the defendant was also a registered
proprietor of the trademark 'Marc' and it was being used by defendant for
different goods. In P.M. Diesels Pvt. Ltd. v. Thakural Mechanical Works, PTC
(Supp.) (2) 863 (Del.), this Court, inter alia, observed as under:

15\. In the present case the plaintiff is the registered proprietor of the
trademark 'Field Marshal', in respect of diesel oil engines or parts thereof.
The defendants, on the other hand, are also the registered proprietor of the
trademark 'Field Marshal', but in respect of centrifugal pumps etc. Inasmuch
as both the plaintiff and the defendants are the registered proprietors of the
trademark which are identical, namely 'Field Marshal' the provisions of
Section 28(3) of the Act would be applicable to the present case. By virtue of
this provision, the exclusive right to use the trademark 'Field Marshal',
shall not be deemed to have been acquired either by the plaintiff or by the
defendant as against each other, but both the plaintiff as well as the
defendant have otherwise the same rights as against other persons as they
would have if they were the sole proprietors. Section 28(3) therefore,
protects the proprietory rights of both the plaintiff as well as the
defendant. They would be entitled to take action against anyone, if the
trademark is infringed, but neither the plaintiff nor the defendant are
entitled to take action against each other because both of them are registered
proprietors of identical trademark, though in respect of different types of
goods.

16\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff sought to reply upon a decision in the
case of the Valentine Extract Company Limited (1901 (18) RPC 175) so as to
contend that an injunction can be issued restraining the registered owner of a
trademark from using the said mark. The head note of the said report reads as
follows:

V, in 1897, registered three Trademark, each consisting of the word 'Valtine'
for all goods in Classes 3 and 42, and in Class 43 for beer and spirits, and
purported to assign them to a Limited Company formed to carry on the business
of meat extract manufacturer, with his good will, if any. Another Company
obtained an injunction restraining the Limited Company from selling meat
extract or meat juice under the name 'Valtine' and subsequently moved to
remove the marks from the Register of Trade Marks, the grounds of the
application being that at the date of the assignment V. had no goodwill to
assign, that the marks were deceptive, and had not been used except for meat
extract. An Order was made moving the marks from the Register with costs.

17\. In my opinion, the aforesaid decision can be of no assistance to the
plaintiff. Firstly, Mr. Justice Farewell of the Chancery Division had no
occasion to consider or deal with a provision similar to Sections 28 and 31 of
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958. The submission of Mr. Anand,
learned Counsel for the defendant is that in fact the Trade and Merchandise
Marks Act applicable in England at that time did not contain a provision
similar to Sections 28 and 31 of the Indian Act. Secondly, no contention was
raised before the Court in Valentine's case that an injunction cannot be
granted restraining the registered owner from using the trademark.

11\. In Jindal Industries Limited v. Nirmal Steel Tubes Pvt. Ltd. 1995 PTC 75
this Court refused to issue injunction against the defendant having trademark
'Nirmal' shown across the map of India in oval shape whereas the trademark of
the plaintiff was 'Jindal' written across the map of India in Oval shape,
since defendant was registered owner of trademark.

12\. In Tee Cee Hosiery Works v. Grover Sons, FAO 97/1987, 2004(29) PTC 532
(Del.) defendant was the registered proprietor of trademark 'SPLASH'. This
Court held that no injunction would lie against the appellant since the
appellant was holding a registered trademark in its name and the remedy
available to the respondent was to have the trademark cancelled.

13\. The plea of the plaintiff is that the plaintiff was the registered
proprietor of trademark in Class '9', through the defendant was also a
registered proprietor of same trademark for Class '9', but since the
plaintiff's trademark was registered earlier in time, the defendant should be
restrained from manufacturing the goods. If the plaintiff had been
manufacturing the same items as were being manufactured by the defendant, the
plaintiff would have a case. In the instant case, however, plaintiff is not
manufacturing the goods which were being manufactured by the defendant. Even
if the plaintiff has got the trademark registered for a class of items, the
plaintiff was not using this trademark for the goods which were being
manufactured by the defendant and the defendant, therefore, cannot be
restrained from being using the trademark 'Marc' for the goods manufactured by
it.

14\. In Sona Spices Pvt. Ltd. v. Soongachi Tea Industries Pvt. Ltd. 2007 (34)
PTC 91(Del.) the plaintiff was the owner of registered trademark 'Sona' in
Class '30' but was using it for spices only whereas the defendant was also
registered trademark owner of trademark 'Sona' in respect of class '30' and
was using it for Tea and other beverages. The trademark of the plaintiff was
registered in October, 1980. The trademark of defendant was registered in
respect of Tea in June 1983. The plaintiff contended that it was prior user of
trademark 'Sona' and has commenced its business sometime in 1975 and defendant
was passing off its tea as that of the plaintiff. This Court observed that
plaintiff has not made out a prima facie case for interference even though
plaintiff may be entitled to say that its user of trademark 'Sona' can extend
beyond spices such as tea but the plaintiff has not utilized its trademark for
manufacture of tea, prior to 1993 while the defendant was manufacturing the
tea much prior to 1993 i.e. since 1978-79 and was user of trademark 'Sona' in
respect of Tea. The plaintiff had taken no steps to protect its interests in
respect of trademark 'Sona' regarding manufacture and sale of tea. The Court,
therefore, held that there was no case in favor of the plaintiff and refused
to grant injunction to the plaintiff against the use of the trademark 'Sona'
by defendant.

15\. In Canon Kabushiki Kaisha v. B. Mahajan and Ors 2007 (35) PTC 265(Del)
the applicant sought interim injunction against the trademark and copyrights
of mark 'Canon' used for imaging equipments and information systems alleging
that defendant was using the trademark 'canon' for similar style and get up in
goods consisting of nuts, bolts and fasteners etc. This Court observed that
while considering the action of passing off, the Court has to keep in mind if
there was likelihood of even in the minds of the customers. If there was
dissimilarity in the goods and services, the possibility of confusion and
suspicion would normally be less. This Court also observed that the plaintiff
in fact has not used its registered trademark in respect of the goods falling
in Class '6' and '20' and, therefore, there seems to be no force in the
defendants submission that the registration obtained by the plaintiff is
liable to be taken off the register under Section 47 of the Trademarks Act
because of its use. The defendants had been using the trademark 'canon' as
part of their trademark since 1995 for fasteners, nut, bolts and the
application of the defendant was also advertised in trademarks journals based
on users. The defendant had also participating in various exhibitions and
openly using the the mark 'canon' as part of their trade name and style and
the plaintiffs did not even claim to have objected to the same. The Court
refused to issue interim injunction in favor of the plaintiff. This Court also
observed that a large number of entities world over were apparently using the
mark 'canon' as part of their style and trademarks. Thus, the mark 'canon' was
not distinctive of plaintiff's goods world over.

16\. In Vishnudas trading as Vishnudas Kishendas v. Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co.
Ltd. 1996 PTC (16) 512 (SC) the Hon'ble Supreme Court observed as under:

In our view, if a trader or manufacturer actually trades in or manufactures
only one or some of the articles coming under a broad classification and such
trader or manufacturer has no bona fide intention to trade in or manufacture
other goods or articles which also fall under the said broad classification,
such trader or manufacturer should not be permitted to enjoy monopoly in
respect of all the articles which may come under such broad classification and
by that process preclude the other traders of manufacturers to get
registration or separate and distinct goods which may also be grouped under
the broad classification. If registration has been given generally in respect
of all the articles coming under the broad classification and if it is
established that the trader or manufacturer who got such registration had not
intended to use any other article except and articles being used by such
trader or manufacturer, the registration of such trader is liable to be
rectified by limiting the ambit of registration and confining such
registration to the specific article or articles which really concern the
trader or manufacturer enjoying the registration made in his favor. In our
view, if rectification in such circumstances is not allowed, the trader or
manufacturer by virtue of earlier registration will be permitted to enjoy the
mischief of trafficking in trade mark. Looking to the Scheme of the
registration of trade mark as envisaged in the Trade Mark Act and the Rules
framed there under, it appears to us that registration of a trademark cannot
be held to be absolute, perpetual and invariable under all circumstances.

17\. I find that the plaintiff has failed to show that it has a prima facie
case that the defendant was copying its trademark and logo. The style and logo
of circle with 'M' was not at all there in the literature of defendant and
trademark 'MARC' was also written in different style and manner. The defendant
was neither marketing nor manufacturing the goods being marketed/manufactured
by the plaintiff. The defendant was registered proprietor of the trademark
'MARC' for the goods being manufactured by it. The word 'MARC' was not a
coined word or invention of the plaintiff. It was and is being extensively
used world over as a trade name, a trade style and as a first name of the
company.

18\. In view of above scenario, I find that no case is made out for issuing
injunction either against the plaintiff or against the defendants from using
the trademark/logo 'MARC'. It is further directed that in all their
literatures, the plaintiff and defendants shall write the name of the company
prominently to indicate as to who was the manufacturer of the goods and on
packing materials both plaintiff and defendants shall write the name of the
company/manufacturer so that the customers know who is the manufacturer.

19\. With above directions, both the applications stand disposed of. No orders
as to costs.

CS(OS) No. 1059/2005 List on 8th August 2008.

