

Delhi High Court

Remidex Pharma Private Limited vs Savita Pharmaceuticals P. Ltd. ... on 3
July, 2006

Equivalent citations: 131 (2006) DLT 350, 2006 (33) PTC 157 Del

Author: B D Ahmed

Bench: B D Ahmed

JUDGMENT Badar Durrez Ahmed, J.

Page 2543

1\. The question that arises for consideration in the present application
under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2, CPC is whether the plaintiff is entitled to an
interim order of injunction, inter alia, restraining the defendant from using
the mark 'EVIT' in respect of its pharmaceutical products. The plaintiff's
case is that the defendant's trademark 'EVIT' is deceptively similar to the
plaintiff's registered trademark 'ZEVIT'.

2\. The plaintiff's trademark 'ZEVIT' is registered under Registration No.
452526 on 16.04.1986 in respect of pharmaceuticals, veterinary and sanitary
preparations and substances. The original registration was in the name of
Eskayef Ltd. The name of that company was changed to Smithkline Beecham
Pharmaceuticals (India) Ltd in the year 1994. By a Deed of Assignment dated
19.01.1998, the said registered trademark was assigned by the said Smithkline
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (India) Ltd in favor of the plaintiff. It is the
plaintiff's case that the trademark 'ZEVIT' is an invented word having no
dictionary meaning and thus has the highest degree of distinctiveness
connoting the plaintiffs goods exclusively. According to the plaintiff, the
trademark 'ZEVIT' has been used by the plaintiff continuously, regularly and
without any hindrance for the last number of years. A sample of the product
was annexed as Annexure-B. It indicates that the plaintiff's product 'ZEVIT'
is a formulation which contains Zinc Sulphate Monohydrate, Vitamins B1, B2,
B6, B12, Nicotinamide, Calcium Pantothenate and Vitamin C. Essentially, it is
a vitamin formulation.

3\. It is alleged in the plaint that sometime in November, 2002, the plaintiff
became aware that the defendant was manufacturing, marketing and selling the
vitamin capsules under the trademark 'EVIT'.

4\. As per the written statement filed by the defendants, the products
marketed by them under the trademark 'EVIT' are nothing but vitamin 'E'
tablets. As per the defendants, the product is a single ingredient vitamin
drug. The defendants' drugs are allegedly marketed under the trademark 'EVIT'
which, Page 2544 according to the defendants, is derived from and adopted to
identify the generic name of the drug, namely, 'Vitamin E'. According to the
defendants', the suffix 'VIT' is common to the pharmacy trade indicating
vitamin preparations.

5\. From these brief facts, it is apparent that the plaintiff is the
proprietor of the registered trademark 'ZEVIT'. It is also apparent that the
plaintiff has also been continuously using the same. The defendants mark
'EVIT' is not a registered mark. The defendant has been using this mark in
respect of its 'Vitamin E' formulations. When this plaint was filed, this
Court passed an ex parte ad interim order in favor of the plaintiff on
13.02.2003 injuncting the defendants from manufacturing, selling and offering
for sale or advertising or directly or indirectly dealing in pharmaceutical
preparations under the trademark 'EVIT'. This ex parte interim order has
continued till date. The plaintiff seeks confirmation of this order and the
defendants pray for vacation of the same.

6\. The case of the plaintiff is that the registration of a trademark, by
virtue of Section 28 of The Trademarks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as
'the said Act') gives to the registered proprietor of the trademark the
exclusive right over the trademark in relation to the goods or the services in
respect of which the trademark is registered and to obtain relief in respect
of infringement of the trademark in the manner provided by the said Act.
Infringement of registered trademarks has been specified under Section 29 of
the said Act. It is the plaintiff's case that in view of the provisions of
Section 29 of the said Act, infringement is established if it can be shown
that the infringing trademark is identical or deceptively similar to the
registered trademark in such a manner as to render the use of the mark likely
to be taken as being used as a trademark. It is further the case of the
plaintiff that in terms of Section 31 of the said Act, registration of a
trademark is prima facie evidence of its validity. In support of his
contention that the registration of a trademark gives valuable rights to its
owner/proprietor, the learned Counsel for the plaintiff referred to the
following decisions:

i) National Bell Co. v. Metal Goods Manufacturing Co. (P.) Ltd and Anr. AIR
1971 SC 898;

ii) American Home Products Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd and Anr. ;

iii) Durga Dutt Sharma v. N.P. Laboratories ;

iv) M/s Avis International Ltd v. Avi Footwear Industries and Anr. AIR 1991
Delhi 22.

7\. These decisions need not be examined in detail inasmuch as the position is
clear and inescapable that the registration of a trademark gives to the
proprietor thereof valuable and exclusive rights as indicated in Section 28 of
the said Act. The only question that needs to be considered in the present
case is whether the trademark 'ZEVIT' and 'EVIT' are deceptively similar or
not. It has been contended by the learned Counsel for the defendant that both
the marks can be broken down into two components each. One component Page 2545
is common to both and those are the letters 'VIT'. According to the
defendants, this portion, i.e., 'VIT', is common to the trade and is of a
generic nature inasmuch as it is normally used for vitamin formulations.
Therefore, what needs to be compared are the non-generic parts of the marks.
The prefix 'ZE' as used by the plaintiff and the prefix 'E' as used by the
defendant. According to the learned Counsel for the defendants, these are
dissimilar and cannot be confused for one another. Therefore, ignoring the
comparison of the generic portions, there is enough dissimilarity to take the
case of the defendants mark out of the expression deceptively similar used in
Section 29 of the said Act.

8\. For this proposition, the learned Counsel for the defendants relied upon
the case of F. Hoffimann-La Roche and Co. Ltd v. Geoffrey Manners and Co. Pvt.
Ltd. . In that case, the Supreme Court was faced with the comparison of the
trademarks 'DROPOVIT' and 'PROTOVIT'. In paragraph 12 of the said decision,
the Supreme Court observed that in order to decide whether 'DROPOVIT' is
deceptively similar to the word 'PROTOVIT' each of the two words must,
therefore, be taken as a whole word. According to the Supreme Court, each of
the two words consists of eight letters, the last three letters are common,
and in the uncommon part the first two are consonants, the next is the same
vowel 'o', the next is a consonant and the fifth is again a common vowel 'o'.
The Supreme Court further observed that the combined effect of these was to
produce an alliteration. The Supreme Court also noted that the affidavits of
the appellant indicated that the last three letters 'VIT' is a well-known
common abbreviation used in the pharmaceutical trade to denote Vitamin
preparations. In this view, the Supreme Court observed that it is apparent
that the terminal syllable 'VIT' in the two marks is both descriptive and
common to the trade and the Supreme Court further held that if greater regard
is paid to the uncommon element in these two words, it is difficult to hold
that one will be mistaken for or confused with the other. The Court further
held that the letters 'D' and 'P' in 'DROPOVIT' and the corresponding letters
'P' and 'T' in 'PROTOVIT' cannot possibly be slurred over in pronunciation and
the words are so dissimilar that there is no reasonable probability of
confusion between the words either from the visual or phonetic point of view.
The learned Counsel for the defendants placed great reliance on this decision
of the Supreme Court to contend that the suffix 'VIT' is (a) generic in nature
and used for vitamin formulations; (b) to be ignored for comparing the marks;
(c) that the prefixes 'ZE' and 'E' used in the case of the plaintiff's
trademark and the defendant's trademark respectively are entirely dissimilar
and, therefore, on a comparison of the pre-fixes alone, it cannot be said that
the defendant's mark was deceptively similar to the mark used by the
plaintiff. A host of other judgments were cited by the counsel for the
plaintiff as well as the counsel for the defendants, but I need need examine
those judgments as the principles are clear from the aforesaid decision
itself. The principles Page 2546 being that the words must be compared as
wholes and while comparing the marks, greater regard should be paid to the
uncommon element in the two marks and upon such comparison if it is found that
the uncommon elements are so dissimilar as cannot be confused with each other,
then the conclusion would be that the marks are not deceptively similar.
Putting this proposition conversely, it becomes clear that if a comparison of
the uncommon elements reveals that there is a likelihood of deception and or
similarity and/or confusion, then it can be clearly established that the marks
are deceptively similar. Although the learned Counsel for the plaintiff
submits that the decision in F. Hoffimann-La Roche and Co. Ltd (supra) would
not be applicable to the facts of the present case inasmuch as that was a case
concerned with a dispute qua registration, whereas the present case is one of
infringement of a registered trademark, I feel that the principles with regard
to the question of deceptive similarity are quite well laid out in the said
decision of the Supreme court and are equally applicable in relation to an
action on infringement. But, the decision in F. Hoffimann-La Roche (supra)
does not militate against the plaintiff in the facts of the present case.

9\. Comparing the marks 'ZEVIT' and 'EVIT', I find that the prefixes 'ZE' and
'E' are phonetically quite similar. The suffix 'VIT' is common to both the
marks and is, indeed, identical. The marks taken as a whole, therefore,
include identical suffixes and quite similar prefixes, therefore, in my view,
the inescapable conclusion is that the mark 'EVIT' is deceptively similar to
the registered trademark 'ZEVIT' of which the plaintiff is the proprietor. The
plaintiff, therefore, has been able to establish a good prima facie case and
the balance of convenience is also in its favor. If the order prayed for is
not granted, it would suffer irreparable harm and injury.

10\. The defendants have raised a plea of delay, however, I am not much
concerned with such a plea inasmuch as the present action is more of one of
infringement of a registered trademark than one of passing off where such
considerations as delay and acquiescence have relevance.

11\. Accordingly, the ex parte ad interim order dated 13.02.2003 is confirmed
till the disposal of the suit.

This application stands disposed of.

