

Delhi High Court

M/S P K Overseas Pvt.Ltd.& Anr vs M/S Bhagwati Lecto Vegetarians ... on 3
October, 2016

    
    
    *     IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    %                        Judgment Reserved On : September 26, 2016
                             Judgment Delivered On : October 03, 2016
    
    +                           FAO (OS) (COMM) 67/2016
    
          M/S P K OVERSEAS PVT.LTD. & ANR               .....Appellants
                    Represented by: Ms.Pratibha M.Singh, Senior
                                    Advocate instructed by Mr.Umesh
                                    Mishra and Mr.Sunil Kr.Ojha,
                                    Advocates
    
                                    versus
    
          M/S BHAGWATI LECTO VEGETARIANS
          EXPORTS PVT.L.TD & ANR                    .....Respondents
                  Represented by: Mr.Sandeep Bisht, Advocate with
                                  Mr.Aditya Dhar, Advocate for R-1
    
    CORAM:
    HON'BLE MR. JUSTICE PRADEEP NANDRAJOG
    HON'BLE MS. JUSTICE PRATIBHA RANI
    
    PRADEEP NANDRAJOG, J.
    

1\. The appellants are the plaintiffs. The respondents are the defendants.
Suit is on an action for passing off of the trademarks 'India Salaam‟ and „Al
Habib‟. The rival trademark is 'Al Salaam‟. Under the competing trademarks
same goods i.e. rice is being sold.

2\. As per the plaintiffs the trademark 'India Salaam‟ was adopted and put
into use in the year 1985 by plaintiff No.2 who was carrying on FAO(OS) (COMM)
No.67/2016 Page 1 of 15 business under the name and style M/s P.K.Enterprises,
which trading name by him was changed to M/s Sun Rise Agro India, which was
later on converted into a company M/s P.K.Agro Enterprises Pvt.Ltd. and
thereafter name changed to M/s P.K.Overseas Pvt.Ltd. That with the consent of
plaintiff No.2, the plaintiff No.1 has also been permitted to use the
trademark 'India Salaam‟ i.e. said trademark is used both by plaintiff No.1
and plaintiff No.2 for sale of rice. As per the plaintiffs since the year 2009
they conceived of and adopted the trademark 'Al Habib' for rice and
registration of the said trademark is also pending. Both plaintiffs used the
trademark 'Al Habib.‟

3\. The defendants adopted the trademark 'Al Salaam‟ in May 2015 and used the
same from June 01, 2015. The goods being rice.

4\. On the aforesaid admitted facts, with the additional fact that during the
pendency of the suit, the appellants obtained registration of the trademark
'Al Habib‟ on December 10, 2015; the learned Single Judge has vacated the ex-
parte ad-interim injunction obtained by the appellants, vide impugned order
dated July 27, 2016 holding that what intrigues the court is the claim of the
plaintiffs being not based on the allegation of deceptive similarity to the
trademark 'India Salaam‟ or the trade mark 'Al Habib‟, but with reference to
the two marks taken together. The learned Single Judge has held that it is not
the case of the plaintiffs that they are using the two marks in conjunction
with each other. The learned Judge has noted that plaintiffs turn over under
the two trademarks (individually) is not known. The learned Judge has held
that he cannot thus determine as to FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 2 of 15
what is the turn over under the two trademarks in which proprietary interest
is claimed by the plaintiffs. In para 17 and 18 of the impugned decision the
learned Single Judge has observed:-

> "17. I am of the view that at this stage, while considering whether the use
> by the defendants of the trademark ÄL SALAM" amounts to the defendants
> passing off their goods as that of the plaintiffs, the two marks of the
> plaintiffs "INDIA SALAAM" and „AL HABIB‟ cannot be taken together and the
> test to be applied is whether the trademark "AL SALAM" is
> similar/deceptively similar separately to "INDIA SALAAM" or to "AL HABIB".

> 18\. Apply the said test, the answer has to be in the negative. None,
> particularly the customers of the plaintiffs i.e. who are importing rice
> from India, can be said to be likely to confuse the goods of the defendants
> with the trademark "AL SALAM" with those of the plaintiffs or having origin
> from the plaintiffs."

5\. The learned Single Judge has thereafter reasoned that since the plaintiffs
had failed to establish that the trademark „India Salaam‟ had acquired
distinctiveness and reputation it could not be said that prima- facie case of
passing off against the respondents with reference to the respondents'
trademark 'Al Salaam‟ was made out, and for which conclusion the reason given
by the learned Single Judge is that the plaintiffs gave composite sale figures
for the rice sold under their trademarks 'India Salaam‟ and 'Al Habib‟.

6\. The learned Single Judge has then proceeded to consider the packaging
material i.e. the trade dress under which the rice is sold by the FAO(OS)
(COMM) No.67/2016 Page 3 of 15 plaintiffs and defendants and held that there
is no deceptive similarity in the trade dresses.

7\. In appeal we would be guided by the principles of law laid down by the
Supreme Court in the decision reported as 1990 Suppl. (1) SCC 727 Wander Ltd.
v & Anr vs. Antox India Pvt, Ltd. wherein, in para 9 and 14 it was observed as
under:-

> "9. Usually, the prayer for grant of an interlocutory injunction is at a
> stage when the existence of the legal right asserted by the plaintiff and
> its alleged violation are both contested and uncertain and remain uncertain
> till they are established at the trial on evidence. The court, at this
> stage, acts on certain well settled principles of administration of this
> form of interlocutory remedy which is both temporary and discretionary. The
> object of the interlocutory injunction, it is stated "...is to protect the
> plaintiff against injury by violation of his rights for which he could not
> adequately be compensated in damages recoverable in the action if the
> uncertainty were resolved in his favour at the trial. The need for such
> protection must be weighed against the corresponding need of the defendant
> to be protected against injury resulting from his having been prevented from
> exercising his own legal rights for which he could not be adequately
> compensated. The court must weigh one need against another and determine
> where the „balance of convenience‟ lies."

> The interlocutory remedy is intended to preserve in status quo, the rights
> of parties which may appear on a prima FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 4 of
> 15 facie case. The court also, in restraining a defendant from exercising
> what he considers his legal right but what the plaintiff would like to be
> prevented, puts into the scales, as a relevant consideration whether the
> defendant has yet to commence his enterprise or whether he has already been
> doing so in which latter case considerations somewhat different from those
> that apply to a case where the defendant is yet to commence his enterprise,
> are attracted.

> xxxx

> 14\. The appeals before the Division Bench were against the exercise of
> discretion by the Single Judge. In such appeals, the appellate court will
> not interfere with the exercise of discretion of the court of first instance
> and substitute its own discretion except where the discretion has been shown
> to have been exercised arbitrarily, or capriciously or perversely or where
> the court had ignored the settled principles of law regulating grant or
> refusal of interlocutory injunctions. An appeal against exercise of
> discretion is said to be an appeal on principle. Appellate court will not
> reassess the material and seek to reach a conclusion different from the one
> reached by the court below if the one reached by that court was reasonably
> possible on the material. The appellate court would normally not be
> justified in interfering with the exercise of discretion under appeal solely
> o the ground that if it had considered the matter at the trial stage it
> would have come to a contrary conclusion. If the discretion has been
> exercised by the trial court reasonably and in a judicial manner the fact
> that the appellate court would have taken a different view may not justify
> interference with the trial court‟s exercise of discretion. After referring
> to these principles FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 5 of 15 Gajendragadkar,
> J. in Printers (Mysore) Private Ltd. vs. Pothan Joseph (SCR 721) "...These
> principles are well established, but as has been observed by Viscount Simon
> in Charles Osenton & Co. vs. Jhanaton „..the law as to the reversal by a
> court of appeal of an order made by a judge below in the exercise of his
> discretion is well established, and any difficulty that arises is due only
> to the application of well settled principles in an individual case."

8\. Now, in the plaint it is not the case pleaded by the plaintiffs that to
determine passing off their trademarks „India Salam‟ and 'Al Habib' have to be
taken together and thus the initial part of paragraph 17 of the impugned order
is surplus. But the later part of the said paragraph that the test to be
applied is whether the trademark 'Al Salam‟ is deceptively similar to either
'Al Habib‟ or 'India Salaam‟ is correct.

9\. The problem with the impugned order is that in paragraph 18 it records the
opinion of the learned Single Judge without giving the reasons thereof.

10\. Comparison of the trade dress is irrelevant because it is not the case of
the plaintiffs that the deceptive similarity is occasioned with respect of the
trade dress. The case of the plaintiffs was the deceptive similarity in the
trademarks, which are word marks.

11\. The sales figure disclosed in the plaint is for the years 2002-03 till
the year 2014-15. It is true that a composite figure of sales has been FAO(OS)
(COMM) No.67/2016 Page 6 of 15 disclosed pertaining to the rice sold under the
trademarks „India Salaam' and 'Al Habib, but what has been overlooked by the
learned Single Judge is that the trademark 'Al Habib‟ was coined in the year
2009 and thus the sales preceding said year would obviously be under the
trademarks 'India Salaam‟ and the figures for the year 2002-03 till the year
2008-09 for plaintiff No.1 and plaintiff No.2 would be:-

> Year Plaintiff No.1 sales (`) Plaintiff No.2 sales ` 2001-02 Nil 43213925.00
> 2002-03 78853516.00 13005017.00 2003-04 46953202.00 13691444.00 2004-05
> 79763365.00 16698259.00 2005-06 86741808.00 24326207.00 2006-07 193799604.00
> 42829590.00 2007-08 227840064.00 98059750.00 2008-09 591247125.00
> 133160903.00

12\. If the learned Single Judge had properly directed himself to this aspect
of the matter i.e. the plaintiffs adopted the trademark 'Al Habib‟ in the year
2009, it would have been apparent that the sales figures till said years
pertained to the sales effected under the trademark 'India Salaam‟.

FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 7 of 15

Qua plaintiff No.1 the sales rose from `7,88,53,516/- in the year 2001-02 to
`59,12,47,125/- in the year 2008-09 i.e. from approximately `8 crores the
sales rose to approximately `59 crores and qua plaintiff No.2, commencing from
the year 2001-02 till the year 2008-09 they rose from `4.32 crores to `13.31
crores. Thus, the sale of rice by the plaintiffs under the trademark 'India
Salaam‟ jointly rose from about `8.2 crores as of the year 2001-02 to reach
`72.31 crores in the year 2008-09. And had this fact been noted it would have
been apparent that the plaintiffs, through the medium of their sales, have
prima-facie established goodwill and a reputation generated in their trademark
India Salaam.

13\. In the impugned judgment, and we refer to paragraph 14, though not
expressly mentioned by the learned Single Judge that he is adverting to the
issue whether the plaintiffs have prima-facie established distinctiveness qua
their trademark 'India Salaam‟, the learned Single Judge has discussed said
aspect for the reason the learned Single Judge has noted that the plaintiffs
have given combined sale figures commencing from the year 2001-02 onwards
without bifurcating the same for rice sold under the trademark 'India Salaam‟
and 'Al Habib‟ and therefore one cannot ascertain the sales under the two
trademarks. For the reason given above, said prima-facie finding is wrong.

14\. From the tenor of the impugned judgment it is apparent that had the
learned Single Judge found the sales figures pertaining to rice sold under the
trademark 'India Salaam‟ the learned Single Judge would have considered
whether keeping in view the reputation acquired by the FAO(OS) (COMM)
No.67/2016 Page 8 of 15 trademark 'India Salaam‟, the rival trademark 'Al
Salaam‟ adopted by the respondent's was deceptively similar to the plaintiffs
trademark 'India Salaam‟.

15\. From the sale figures provided in the plaint and prima-facie made good
with reference to documents the plaintiffs would be entitled to the benefit of
a prima-facie view to be taken that they have established goodwill and
reputation in the market qua their trademark 'India Salaam‟.

16\. As regards the respondents the admitted position was that they had just
entered the market using the trademark 'Al Salaam‟. They had yet to acquire a
reputation and the action initiated by the plaintiffs was akin to a quia-timet
action.

17\. The next question to be addressed would then be : whether the trademark
Al Salaam would be deceptively similar to the trademark India Salaam.

18\. We take guidance from precedents. In the decision reported as 2009 (40)
PTC 417 (Del.) (DB), Amar Singh Chawal Wala vs. Shree Vardhan Rice and
Genl.Mills, the two rival trade marks were „Lal Qilla‟ and „Hara Qilla‟ in
respect of rice and the issue before the Division Bench was the deceptive
similarity of the marks thereof. The plaintiffs had adopted the trademark
Golden Qilla in the year 1954 for rice and Lal Qilla in the year 1961 and
Neela Qilla in the year 1977. In the year 1986, the plaintiffs learnt use of
the trademark Hara Qilla by the defendant. The learned Single Judge refused to
grant the injunction holding that there was no phonetic similarity between
Golden Qilla, Lal Qilla, Neela Qilla and Hara FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 9
of 15 Qilla. The Division Bench at the outset noted that the suit was
essentially one for infringement. Referring to the decision reported as (1965)
1 SCR 737 Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
Laboratories wherein it was, inter-alia, held that if the essential features
of a trademark of the plaintiff have been adopted by the defendant, the fact
that the get up, packing and other writing or marks on the goods or on the
packets in which defendant offers his goods for sales show marked differences
or indicate clearly a trade origin different from that of the registered
proprietor of the mark, would be immaterial. The Division Bench then referred
to the decision reported as (1963) 2 SCR 484 Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo
where, based on the imperfect recollection of an average consumer who is not
likely to split the components of a name and consider the etymological meaning
thereof, the rival marks 'Amritdhara‟ and 'Lakshmandhara‟ were held to be
phonetically and deceptively similar. The Division Bench held that the
impugned trade mark 'Hara Qilla‟ contained the essential feature of the
plaintiff's trade mark i.e. the word 'Qilla‟ which along with the device of a
fort was deceptively similar to the registered trademarks, 'Lal Qilla' and
'Golden Qilla‟. It was further held that significantly the said deception was
amplified by the phonetic similarity in the constituent and dominant element
'Qilla‟ of the rival marks „Golden/Lal Qilla‟ and „Hara Qilla‟. Noting that
the trademarks had no connection with the product i.e. rice, injunction was
granted.

FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 10 of 15

19\. In the decision reported as 2010 (44) PTC 293 (Del.) (DB) M/S Kirorimal
Kashiram Marketing vs M/S. Shree Sita Chawal Udyog Mill, the primary issue
before the Division Bench was whether the respondent's impugned trade mark
'Golden Deer' was deceptively similar to the appellant's registered trade mark
„Double Deer‟ with respect to sale of the identical goods i.e. rice. The
learned Single Judge had refused an injunction. It was a case where the
appellants were undisputedly the prior user of the trademark Double Deer. The
Division Bench opined that the word „Deer‟ was a prominent part of the
appellant's trademark „Double Deer‟. The Division Bench noted the decision in
Amar Singh Chawal Wala case (supra). Rejecting that the word 'Deer‟ was common
to the trade and noting that the defendant had failed to establish extensive
use and reputation in its trademark 'Golden Deer‟, injunction was granted.

20\. It is often argued in trademark infringement cases that the trademark has
to be considered as a whole and has not to be dissected. That is to say the
anti-dissection rule is brought into force. On the other hand the theory of a
dominant part of a trademark is propounded which essentially requires a Court
to look at the trademark compositely but identify if any part thereof is the
dominant part. To a layman it may appear to be a legal paradox, for on the one
hand there is a rule that you cannot dissect a composite mark and on the other
hand you have a rule which has the feature of dissecting. In the decision
reported as 2015 (61) PTC 231 South India Beverages Pvt. Ltd. vs General Mills
FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 11 of 15 Marketing Inc. this issue was
addressed by a Division Bench of this Court with respect to same products i.e.
ice cream. The rival marks under consideration were 'HAAGEN-DAZS‟ and
„D‟DAAZS‟. Propounding the rule of anti-dissection to contend that the
respondent's mark 'HAAGEN- DAZS‟ should be viewed as an indivisible whole and
when viewed in its entirety, it was not deceptively similar to the impugned
trademark 'D‟DAAZS‟, the rival argument was that „DAZS‟ formed a prominent
part of the trademark 'HAAGEN-DAZS‟ and therefore warranted protection against
the impugned trademark. The Division Bench then referred to various judicial
decisions and opined that the rule of anti-dissection essentially mandates
that where the issue is of deceptive similarity between composite marks, the
commercial impression of the mark as a whole needs to be considered for the
reason the jurisprudence behind the anti-dissection rule was that the
combination of the terms in its entirety and not its dissected elements
constitute the distinctive mark. The Division Bench then referred to the
decision reported as 211 (2014) DLT 296 Stiefel Laborataries v. Ajanta Pharma
Ltd. and therefrom extracted the rationale for the anti-dissection rule : „The
rationale of the anti- dissection rule is based upon this assumption: „An
average purchaser does not retain all the details of a mark, but rather the
mental impression of the mark creates in its totality. It has been held to be
a violation of the anti-dissection rule to focus upon the „prominent‟ feature
of a mark and decide likely confusion solely upon that feature, ignoring all
other elements of the mark. Similarly, it is improper to find that one portion
of FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 12 of 15 a composite mark has no trademark
significance, leading to a direct comparison between only that which remains.'
In view of the aforesaid, the Division Bench opined that the principles of
'anti- dissection' and that of 'identification of „dominant mark‟ are not
antithetical to one another but are rather complimentary. It was held that the
constituent elements may be viewed as a preliminary step in ultimately
determining probable customer reaction to the conflicting composites as a
whole. The Division Bench expounded that the rule of anti-dissection does not
absolutely restrict consideration of the constituent elements of a composite
mark and more significantly, where less than the entire trademark was
appropriated amounting to infringement thereof, there would be no violation of
the anti-dissection rule. Reliance was placed on the decision reported as 380
F.3d 1340 Re Chatam Int'l, Inc, where the Court held that the commercial
impression created by the dominant part 'GASPAR‟ of the registered mark
'GASPAR'S ALE' was far more substantial than by its other part 'ALE and
therefore the impugned mark 'JOSE GASPAR GOLD‟ was found to be deceptively
similar to the registered mark. Reference was then made to decision reported
as 405 F.Supp. 530 (1975) Eaton Allen Corp. v. Paco Impressions Corp where it
was held that consideration of a trademark as a whole does not preclude
infringement where less than the entire trademark is appropriated. In the
facts of the case, the Division Bench, rejected the appellant's arguments
advanced on the basis of the anti-dissection rule to hold that the impugned
mark 'D‟ DAAZS‟ infringed a dominant feature i.e. 'DAZS‟ of the respondents'
trademark 'HAAGEN‟ FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 13 of 15 'DAZS‟ which
feature can be easily relied on to trace the source of its product and
therefore must be accorded protection. Thereafter, noting that the expression
'HAAGEN DAZS‟, was a unique combination of Danish- sounding words having no
dictionary meaning in any language, the Division Bench reiterated that being
an arbitrarily chosen trademark, the same was entitled to a high degree of
protection and referred to the decision of this Court reported as 2010 (44)
PTC 293 (Del) Kirorimal Kashiram Marketing and Agencies Pvt. Ltd. v. Shree
Sita Chawal Udyog Mill in support thereof. The Division Bench highlighted that
the consumer generally retained only a vague impression of a mark to ascertain
its similarity upon encountering a new rival mark. Interestingly, the Division
Bench imported the „ordinary observer‟ test in copyright law to hold that this
principle could be adopted if a dominant part of a trademark which had
acquired a goodwill had been adopted by the defendant.

21\. In view of the principles of law hereinabove discussed in the instant
case plaintiffs' trademark 'India Salaam‟ would have both words 'India‟ and
'Salaam‟ as dominant parts thereof and use by the appellants of the trademark
'Al Salaam‟ would be a prima-facie case of infringement. We highlight that the
sales figure by the respondents for sale of rice under the trademark 'India
Salaam‟ justify a prima-facie opinion of reputation acquired in the trademark
and that the appellant had just entered the market. Injury caused to the
appellants would be minimal FAO(OS) (COMM) No.67/2016 Page 14 of 15 if
injunction was granted because the appellants had yet to acquire a reputation
in the trademark adopted by them.

22\. We note that though not pleaded in the plaint, the respondents have as a
matter of fact also applied for registration of the trademark 'India Salaam‟
and it was argued that rice was being sold by the respondents under said
trademark, but we cannot take said argument into account because there are no
pleadings in the plaint and if this assertion is correct the appellants would
be better advised to seek amendment of the plaint and if an application is
filed seeking amendment of the plaintiff the learned Single Judge would decide
the same as per law.

23\. The appeal is allowed. Impugned judgment dated July 27, 2016 dismissing
IA No.16408/2015 and allowing IA No.25336/2015 is set aside. IA No.25336/2015
filed by the respondents is dismissed. IA No. 16408/2015 filed by the
appellants is allowed. The ex-parte ad-interim injunction granted on August
11, 2015 by the learned Single Judge is confirmed.

24\. Parties shall bear their own costs in the appeal.

(PRADEEP NANDRAJOG) JUDGE (PRATIBHA RANI) JUDGE OCTOBER 03 , 2016 skb FAO(OS)
(COMM) No.67/2016 Page 15 of 15

