

Delhi High Court

Asian Paints (India) Ltd. vs Balaji Paints And Chemicals And ... on 10 March,
2006

Equivalent citations: 130 (2006) DLT 150, 2006 (33) PTC 683 Del

Author: S K Kaul

Bench: S K Kaul

JUDGMENT Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.

1\. The plaintiff has filed the suit for permanent injunction, infringement of
trademark and copyright, passing off, damages and delivery up in respect of
the packing material (annexure A to the plaint) for its products, ASIAN
PAINTS, APCOLITE, APEX and TRACtor.

2\. The plaintiff is a company incorporated and registered and the suit is
instituted through Shri Sunil Jaifalkar. The Power of Attorney in his favor
dated 27.1.2003 has been proved as Ex.P1. 3. The plaintiff is engaged in the
business of manufacturing and marketing of paints, varnishes, enamels and
other like products and colour concentrates for the last more than 50 year and
is stated to be the market leader in its field. The products of the plaintiff
are stated to be marketed under distinctive brand names in containers and
packaging bearing a distinctive trade dress and get up.

4\. The plaintiff's device, the image GATTU has a mischievous little boy with
the lopsided grin as its mascot. This mascot is stated to have been originally
created in the year 1954 by India's top cartoonist, R.K. Laxman.

5\. The plaintiff is the registered proprietor of trademark APCOLITE, ASIAN
PAINTS (DEVICE) UTSAV, TRACtor and the TRACtor (DEVICE). The plaintiff is also
the proprietor of the trade mark (device) of GATTU registered in Class 2 as on
27.11.1963. The plaintiff has proved as Ex.P2 and Ex.P3, the certificates of
registration of trade mark for APCOLITE and packing material of plaintiff for
sale of different enamels and paints as Ex.P4 to Ex.P6.

6\. The plaintiff claims original artistic work within the meaning of Section
2(c) of the Copyright Act in respect of its container and packaging material
as the same are stated to have distinctive colour scheme, layout and get up.
The trade mark of the plaintiff is also stated to be written in a distinctive
manner.

7\. The plaintiff has set forth in the plaint its sales figures running into
crores of rupees and the advertising expenses itself run into about Rs.69
crores for the year 2004-2005.

8\. In the last week of July, 2005, the plaintiff came across persons in Delhi
and adjoining areas who had commenced the use and started marketing synthetic
enamel by adopting the trademarks of the plaintiff such as APCOLITE, APEX and
TRACtor. Defendant No.1 was found to manufacture and defendant No.2 was found
to be the retailer. On further enquiries, the plaintiff found that the
defendants were also manufacturing the look alike products by using the
trademarks SUPER ASIAN, GREAT ASIAN, ASIAN GOLD in the same manner as the
trademark of the plaintiffs and the packaging material used by the defendants
was identical to that of the plaintiff giving impression as if the product of
the defendants is that of the plaintiff. Defendant No.3 is apparently the
shopkeeper.

9\. Defendants No.2 and 3 appeared before the court on 9.12.2005 and their
statement was recorded in terms whereof they agreed to suffer a decree in
terms of prayers (a) to (d) of para 33 of the plaint and to pay costs to the
plaintiff of Rs.10,000/- each. However, defendant No.1 failed to appear
despite service and was proceeded ex-parte and the plaintiff has led ex-parte
evidence by way of affidavit. The affidavit has been filed by Shri Jaifalkar
who has affirmed to the contents set out in the plaint and has proved the
documents referred to aforesaid. The said witness has also proved as Ex.P7 to
Ex.P9, the Notary's reports regarding purchase of the goods of the defendants
and has proved the photographs of the defendant's products as Ex.P10 to
Ex.P15.

10\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has taken me through the pleadings and
the documents as well as the affidavit of evidence filed by the plaintiff. The
same show that the defendants have been adopting the trade marks of the
plaintiff and trying to package their goods with the object of deceiving the
public into believing that the goods sold by the defendants are those of the
plaintiff. It cannot be lost sight that the purchaser of such material is not
only the educated class and thus the chances of deception are even higher. The
use by the defendants of the trademark cannot be said to be bona fide and
there is infringement of the rights of the plaintiff. The defendant No.1 being
the manufacturer is primarily liable but has failed to enter appearance.

11\. Learned counsel for the plaintiff states that apart from the relief
claimed for in paras (a) to (d) of para 33 of the plaint, the plaintiff is
also entitled to damages. In this behalf, learned counsel has relied upon the
judgments of this court in Relaxo Rubber Limited and Anr. v. Selection
Footwear and Anr. 1999 PTC (19) 578, Hindustan Machines v. Royal Electrical
Appliances 1999 PTC (19) 685 and CS (OS) 2711/1999 L.T. Overseas Ltd. v.
Guruji Trading Co. and Anr. decided on 7.9.2003. In all these cases, damages
of Rs.3 lakhs were awarded in favor of the plaintiff. In Time Incorporated v.
Lokesh Srivastava and Anr. 2005 (30) PTC 3 (Del) apart from compensatory
damages even punitive damages were awarded to discourage and dishearten law
breakers who indulge in violation with impunity. In a recent judgment in Hero
Honda Motors Ltd. v. Shree Assuramji Scooters 125 (2005) DLT 504 this court
has taken the view that damages in such a case should be awarded against
defendants who chose to stay away from proceedings of the court and they
should not be permitted to enjoy the benefits of evasion of court proceedings.
The rationale for the same is that while defendants who appeared in court may
be burdened with damages while defendants who chose to stay away from the
court would escape such damages. The actions of the defendants result in
affecting the reputation of the plaintiff and every endeavor should be made
for a larger public purpose to discourage such parties from indulging in acts
of deception.

12\. A further aspect which has been emphasised in Time Incorporated case
(supra) is also material that the object is also to relieve a pressure on the
over-loaded system of criminal justice by providing civil alternative to
criminal prosecution of minor crimes. The result of the actions of defendants
is that plaintiffs, instead of putting its energy for expansion of its
business and sale of products, has to use its resources to be spread over a
number of litigations to bring to book the offending traders in the market. In
view of the aforesaid, I am of the considered view that the plaintiff would
also be entitled to damages which are quantified at Rs.3 lakhs.

13\. A decree is passed in favor of the plaintiff and against defendant No.1
in terms of prayers (a) to (d) of para 33 of the plaint. The plaintiff is held
entitled to a decree for a sum of Rs.3 lakhs against defendant No.1. The
plaintiff is also held entitled to costs including the amount spent on the fee
of the Local Commissioner. The decree sheet be drawn up accordingly.

