

Delhi High Court

M/S Gufic Ltd. & Another vs Clinique Laboratories, Llc & Anr on 9 July, 2010

Author: Badar Durrez Ahmed

    
    
                 THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI
    
    %                                      Judgment delivered on: 09.07.2010
    
    +            FAO(OS) 222/2009
    
    M/S GUFIC LTD. & ANOTHER                                        ..... Appellants
    
                                            versus
    
    CLINIQUE LABORATORIES, LLC & ANR                                ..... Respondents

Advocates who appeared in this case:

For the Appellants : Mr Sudhir Chandra Aggarwal, Sr Advocate with Mr Abhinav
Vasisht, Ms Harshita Priyanka, Mr Debojyoti Bhattacharya, Mr Sumit Singh
Benipal and Ms Girija V. Verma For the Respondents : Mr Sandeep Sethi, Sr
Advocate with Ms Anuradha Salhotra, Mr Rahul Chaudhry, Ms Reetika Walia, r
Sindhu Sinha and Mr Sumit Wadhwa CORAM:-

HON'BLE MR JUSTICE BADAR DURREZ AHMED HON'BLE MS JUSTICE VEENA BIRBAL

1\. Whether Reporters of local papers may be allowed to see the judgment ? YES

2\. To be referred to the Reporter or not ? YES

3\. Whether the judgment should be reported in Digest ? YES BADAR DURREZ
AHMED, J

1\. This appeal is directed against the order passed by a learned single Judge
of this court on 09.04.2009 in IA No.15425/2008 (Under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2,
CPC), IA 217/2009, (Under Order 39 Rule 4, CPC) and IA No.2769/2009 [Under
Section 124(1) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999] in CS(OS) 2607/2008.

2\. The respondents / plaintiffs had filed IA No.15425/2008 seeking interim
relief. An ex parte order had been passed on that application on 16.12.2008
restraining the appellants / defendants from using the mark FAO (OS) 222/09
Page 1 of 19 „CLINIQ‟ or any other mark similar to the mark „CLINIQUE‟ of the
respondents / plaintiffs till the disposal of the application. The defendants
were further restrained from marketing any goods or allowing any goods to be
marketed under the impugned trademark through their distributors or other
agents or from advertising the same in any manner whatsoever.

3\. The appellants / defendants had filed IA No.217/2009 (under Order 39 Rule
4, CPC) for vacating the said ex parte order dated 16.12.2008. The respondents
/ plaintiffs had subsequently filed IA No.2769/2009 (Under Section 124(1) (ii)
of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (hereinafter referred to as „the said Act‟)
praying that the proceedings in the suit be stayed till the final disposal of
the rectification proceedings which the respondents / plaintiffs had initiated
before the trademark authorities for cancellation / rectification of the
registration of the trademark „SKINCLINIQ‟ in favour of the appellants /
defendants.

4\. The learned single Judge, by virtue of the impugned order dated
09.04.2009, disposed of all the three said applications. The respondents‟ /
plaintiffs‟ application under Order 39 Rules 1 and 2, CPC (IA No.15425/2008)
was allowed and the ex parte order dated 16.12.2008 was made absolute till the
disposal of the suit. The appellants‟ / defendants‟ application (IA
No.217/2009) under Order 39 Rule 4, CPC was dismissed. The application filed
under Section 124(1)(ii) of the said Act was allowed and the proceedings in
the suit were adjourned pending the final disposal of FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 2
of 19 the rectification proceedings which had already been instituted and also
to enable the respondents / plaintiffs to apply for rectification of the
registration of other marks. Of course, the learned single Judge also observed
that nothing in the order dated 09.04.2009 shall come in the way of the
proceedings, pending which, the suit has been stayed.

5\. The learned single Judge had observed that the respondent No.1 / plaintiff
No.1 was the registered proprietor of the trademark „CLINIQUE‟ since
13.07.1981 in respect of cosmetics, creams, lotions and oils used in cleansing
etc, falling under class 3 of the goods and services specified in the 4th
schedule to the Trade Marks Rules, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as „the said
Rules‟). The learned single Judge also noted that the respondents / plaintiffs
were also the proprietors of the registered trademark - "CLINIQUE WATER
THERAPY", CLINIQUE MOISTURE SURGE and CLINIQUE SKIN SUPPLIES FOR MEN" in
respect of cosmetic and toilet preparations with effect from 1992. The
respondents / plaintiffs were also the registered proprietors in respect of
the trademark "CLINIQUE & C DEVICE" with effect from 04.05.1978 in respect of
allergy tested cosmetics. A host of other trademarks are also owned by the
respondents / plaintiffs, most of which include the word "CLINIQUE". According
to the respondents / plaintiffs, CLINIQUE is the most distinguishing feature
of its trademarks and the same has been in use worldwide since 1968 and has
been used by the respondents / plaintiffs in India since 2007. It has also
been noted by the learned single Judge, on the basis of the pleadings, that
the FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 3 of 19 respondents / plaintiffs learnt about the
registration of the appellants‟ / defendants‟ mark "SKINCLINIQ" and use of the
label „SKINCLINIQ STRETCH NIL‟ on or about September, 2006.

6\. The learned single Judge, while observing that the sales by the appellants
/ defendants of their product "STRETCH NIL SKINCLINIQ" since 1999 could not be
doubted, held against them and in favour of the respondents / plaintiffs. The
learned single Judge was of the view that the appellants / defendants were
engaged in the same business and a presumption cold be raised with regard to
their knowledge of the respondents‟ / plaintiff‟s registered trademark and
consequently, he felt that the action of the appellants / defendants in
adopting the mark „CLINIQ‟ was not above board. According to him, there was
not much distinction between the letter "Q" or "QUE" which appeared in the
word „CLINIQ‟ used by the appellants / defendants and the word „CLINIQUE‟ used
by the respondents / plaintiffs. The learned single Judge also observed that
„CLINIQ‟ as used by the appellants / defendants was spelt differently from the
normal word „CLINIC‟ and that the whole object behind this different spelling
was to somehow create an association with the respondents / plaintiffs
trademark. The learned single Judge also raised a doubt as regards the
appellants / defendants action in using the expression "Made in India by Gufic
Bio Science Ltd". According to the learned single Judge, this expression
suggested that the appellants / defendants were making „STRETCH NIL‟ in India
under a licence from the respondents / plaintiffs. The learned single FAO (OS)
222/09 Page 4 of 19 Judge also observed that the mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ is in a
smaller font than the word „STRETCH NIL‟ and the mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ is not even
visible from a distance. He also observed that all the advertisements were
essentially for „STRETCH NIL‟ and not using the mark „SKINCLINIQ‟. From this,
the learned single Judge concluded that even if the appellants / defendants
were injuncted from using the word „CLINIQ‟, no loss would be caused to the
appellants / defendants.

7\. The learned single Judge came to the prima facie conclusion that the test
of infringement laid down in Section 29 had been satisfied. We would also like
to point out that the learned single Judge raised questions with regard to the
prima faice validity of the registration of the appellants‟ / defendants‟ mark
„SKINCLINIQ‟ in the context of the bar under Section 9(2)(a) of the said Act
as also the provisions of Section 11(1) and (2) of the said Act. The view
taken by the learned single Judge was that the appellants‟ / defendants‟ mark
has, prima facie, been invalidly registered and consequently, a case for
infringement under Section 29 had been made out. It is in these circumstances
that the learned single Judge allowed the respondents‟ applications under
Order 39 Rules 1 and 2, CPC and under Section 124(1)(ii) of the said Act and
dismissed the appellants‟ / defendants‟ application under Order 39 Rule 4,
CPC.

8\. Before we examine the merits of the case, it would be appropriate to set
down the registered trademarks of the appellants / defendants as well as of
the respondents / plaintiffs. The appellant No.1 is the registered FAO (OS)
222/09 Page 5 of 19 proprietor of the trademark „SKINCLINIQ‟, SKINCLINIQ
STRETCH NIL‟ and a series of other marks featuring the word „SKINCLINIQ‟ in
India as given below:

    
    
    No.   Registrat     Date of           Trade Mark        Class    Goods
          ion           Registration
    1.    832825        17-12-1998        SKINCLINIQ          3      Cosmetics & Toilet
                                                                     Preparation
    2.    821801        05-10-1998        SKINCLINIQ          5      Pharmaceutical &
                                                                     Medical Preparation
    3.    832826        17-12-1998        DERMACLINIQ         3      Cosmetics & Toilet
                                                                     Preparation
    4.    821802        05-10-1998        DERMACLINIQ         5      Pharmaceutical &
                                                                     Medical Preparation
    5.    878515        27-09-1999        SKINCLINIQ          3      Cosmetics & Toilet
                                          STRETCH NIL                Preparation
                                          (Label)
    6.    878512        27-09-1999        SKINCLINIQ          5      Pharmaceutical &
                                          STRETCH NIL                Medical Preparation
                                          (Label)
    
    

9\. The respondent No.1, on the other hand, is the registered proprietor in
India of the trademark „CLINIQUE‟, by itself, and a series of marks featuring
the word „CLINIQUE‟, the particulars of which are as under:-

    
    
    Registration      Date of          Trade Mark      Class Goods
                      Registration
    378364            13.7.1981        CLINIQUE         3    Cosmetics creams, lotion &
                                                             oils in cleansing creams,
                                                             lotions    and      make-up,
                                                             astringent, face powder,
                                                             foundation, bases, rouges,
                                                             eye make-up preparation,
                                                             mascara, eye linen eye
                                                             shadow and pencil, eye
                                                             make-up remover, lipsticks
                                                             hair sprays, bath oils and
                                                             anti-perspirants in class 3
    572656            6.5.1992         CLINIQUE         3    Cosmetics and toilet
                                       WATER                 preparations
                                       THERAPY
    572657            6.5.1992         CLINIQUE         3    Cosmetics and toilet
    
    
    FAO (OS) 222/09                                                              Page 6 of 19
                                    MOISTURE            preparations
                                   SURGE
      572658          6.5.1992     CLINIQUE       3    Cosmetics and toilet
                                   SKIN                preparations
                                   SUPPLIES FOR
                                   MEN
      336229          4.5.1978     CLINIQUE & C   3    Allergy tested cosmetics &
                                   DEVICE              toiletries, including anti-
                                                       perspirants
      598136          26.5.1993    CLINIQUE IN    9    Computer chip cards for
                                   TOUCH               use in the selection of
                                                       cosmetics and skin care
                                                       products
      743399          10.12.1996   CLINIQUE       5    Medicated anti-itch skin
                                   EXCEPTIONA          cream in class 5.
                                   LLY
                                   SOOTHING
                                   CREAM FOR
                                   UPS
      774195          31.10.1997   CLINIQUE       3    Cosmetics, toiletries and
                                   HAPPY               perfumery
      902703          9.2.2000     CLINIQUE       3    Skin care preparations
                                   ANTI-
                                   GRAVITY
     1001157          3.4.2001     CLINIQUE       3    Cosmetics, toiletries and
                                   GENTLE              perfumery in class 3
                                   LIGHT
    
    
    

10\. Initially, the entire order passed by the learned single Judge on
09.04.2009 was the subject matter of challenge, including his decision on the
application under Section 124(1)(ii) of the said Act. It had been contended by
Mr Sudhir Chandra, the learned senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the
appellants / defendants that Section 124 was not applicable inasmuch as the
appellants / defendants had not taken the defence available under Section
30(2)(e) of the said Act nor had the appellants / defendants considered the
respondents‟ / plaintiffs‟ registration and the only plea taken was that the
trademarks were completely different. This contention was repelled by Mr
Sandeep Sethi, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the FAO (OS)
222/09 Page 7 of 19 respondents. However, in the course of the arguments, the
said learned counsel agreed that the Section 124 issue be not gone into in
this appeal and the same be considered only from the standpoint of injunction.
It is, therefore, to be seen as to whether the respondents have been able to
make out a prima facie case of injunction for an infringement action under
Section 29 of the said Act or not. It is obvious that if we are to examine the
question of grant of injunction de hors the issue pertaining to Section 124 of
the said Act, it will have to be presumed that the appellants‟ / defendants‟
mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ is unregistered. Because if we do not so presume,
considerations under Section 28(3) as also those arising under Section
30(2)(e) of the said Act would have to be gone into. But, that cannot be done
because Mr Sudhir Chandra himself pointed out that the appellants / defendants
had not taken the defence of Section 30(2)(e). In any event, the arguments
have been addressed only on the question of deceptive similarity between the
marks of the contesting parties in the context of section 29(1) which reads as
under:-

> "29. Infringement of registered trade marks.- (1) A registered trade mark is
> infringed by a person who, not being a registered proprietor or a person
> using by way of permitted use, uses in the course of trade, a mark which is
> identical with, or deceptively similar to, the trade mark in relation to
> goods or services in respect of which the trade mark is registered and in
> such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be taken as being
> used as a trade mark.

> xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx"

> 11\. The marks „CLINIQUE‟ and „SKINCLINIQ‟ are not identical.

Therefore, for infringement to be made out, it must be shown that the mark FAO
(OS) 222/09 Page 8 of 19 „SKINCLINIQ‟ is deceptively similar to the
respondents‟ / plaintiffs‟ mark „CLINIQUE‟ and is used by the appellants /
defendants in such a manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be
taken as being used as a trademark.

12\. In this context, Mr Sudhir Chandra submitted that the marks „SKINCLINIQ‟
and „CLINIQUE‟ are neither identical, nor deceptively similar and that they
are used in relation to different products. The appellants / defendants use
the said mark in respect of their Ayurvedic herbal product known as
„SKINCLINIQ STRECH NIL‟, which is used for removing stretch marks acquired
during pregnancy. „CLINIQUE‟ on the other hand, is not an Ayurvedic herbal
product, though it is used for cosmetic creams, lotions etc. Furthermore, Mr
Sudhir Chandra pointed out that the price differential between the products of
the appellants / defendants and those of the respondents / plaintiffs is so
vast as to remove any possibility of confusion between the customers. 100 ml.
of the appellants‟ / defendants‟ product sells for Rs 245/-, whereas 15 ml and
75 ml of the respondents‟ / plaintiffs‟ products sell for Rs 1,200/- and Rs
1950 respectively. He submitted that the price differential being so vast,
there is absolutely no possibility of the consumers confusing the appellants‟
/ defendants‟ products for those of the respondents‟ / plaintiffs‟. He further
submitted that, in fact, the class of people using the two products is also
different. He further submitted that the style, manner of writing and the
colour combination of the two trademarks are entirely different. The label
marks, which are employed by the appellants / defendants are also entirely
different to those employed FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 9 of 19 by the respondents /
plaintiffs. There is also no denying, as was observed by the learned single
Judge himself, that the appellant has been in the business since 1999 and has
been marketing its products „STRETCH NIL SKINCLINIQ‟ since then as would be
apparent from the numerous advertisements which appeared in the magazines from
time to time. Mr Sudhir Chandra submitted that when the trademarks, which are
to be compared, are not identical, then the test of deceptive similarity that
would have to be employed in a case of infringement would be the same as that
in a case of passing off. He submitted that employing those tests, it cannot
be said that the appellants‟ / defendants‟ trademark „SKINCLINIQ‟ is
deceptively similar to the respondents‟ / plaintiffs‟ trademarks „CLINIQUE‟.

13\. Mr Sandeep Sethi, the learned senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the
respondents / plaintiffs, submitted that when a comparison of the marks is
made from the standpoint of infringement, it is only the marks which are to be
compared and that the price, trade dress, colour scheme etc., are all
irrelevant. He submitted that the marks have to be seen as a whole and the
overall structural and phonetic similarity has to be noticed. All this has to
be done from the standpoint of a consumer of average intelligence with an
imperfect recollection. He submitted that if a comparison is made between the
two marks following the above principles, it would be clearly established that
the appellants‟ / defendants‟ mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ is deceptively similar to the
respondents‟ / plaintiffs‟ mark „CLINIQUE‟. FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 10 of 19

14\. The counsel for the parties had referred to a number of the decisions of
the Supreme Court as well as of this court. They were, inter alia, the
following:-

> 1) Ruston & Hornsby Ltd v. The Zamindara Engineering Co.:

> 1969 (2) SCC 727;

> 2) Amritdhara Pharmacy v. Satya Deo Gupta: AIR 1963 SC 449;

> 3) Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
> Laboratories: AIR 1965 SC 980;

> 4) Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd:

> 1960(1) SCR 968 = AIR 1960 SC 142;

> 5) Amar Singh Chawal Wala v. Shree Vardhman Rice and Genl.

> Mills: FAO (OS) 138/1996 decided on 29.05.2009 [(2009) 159 DLT 267];

> 6) Metropol India (P) Ltd v. Praveen Industries India (Regd):

> 1997 PTC (17) 779 (DB);

> 7) Parle Products (P) Ltd. v. J. P. & Company, Mysore: 1972 (1) SCC 618.

15\. It would be necessary to briefly examine each of these decisions. In
Ruston Hornsby Ltd. (supra), the trademarks, which were compared were „RUSTON‟
on the one hand and "RUSTAM‟ and „RUSTAM INDIA‟, on the other. The plea was
that the appellant‟s trademark „RUSTON‟ had been infringed by the respondent‟s
marks „RUSTAM‟ and „RUSTAM INDIA‟. The Allahabad High Court, where the matter
had originated, held that the use of the word „RUSTAM‟ by the respondent
constituted infringement of the appellant‟s trademark „RUSTON‟. But, the use
of the words „RUSTAM INDIA‟ was not an infringement because the appellant‟s
engines were FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 11 of 19 manufactured in England and the
respondent‟s engines were manufactured in India and that the use of the suffix
„INDIA‟ would be a sufficient warning that the engine sold was not a „RUSTON‟
engine manufactured in England. However, the Supreme Court held that the mark
„RUSTON‟ had been infringed not only by the use of „RUSTAM‟, but also by the
mark „RUSTAM INDIA‟. The Supreme Court felt that the word „RUSTAM‟ was
deceptively similar to the word „RUSTON‟ and that the fact that the word
„INDIA‟ was added to the respondent‟s trademark was of no consequence and the
appellant was entitled to succeed in its action for infringement of the
trademark. While coming to this conclusion, the Supreme Court succinctly
brought out the distinction between an infringement action and a passing off
action. It observed that in a passing off action, the issue is whether the
defendant is selling goods so marked as to be designed or calculated to lead
the purchasers to believe that they are the plaintiff‟s goods. However, in an
infringement action, the question is whether the defendant is using a mark
which is the same as or which is a colourable imitation of the plaintiff‟s
registered trademark. The Supreme Court observed:-

> "7. In an action for infringement where the defendant‟s trade mark is
> identical with the plaintiff‟s mark, the Court will not enquire whether the
> infringement is such as is likely to deceive or cause confusion. But where
> the alleged infringement consists of using not the exact mark on the
> register, but something similar to it, the test of infringement is the same
> as in an action for passing- off. In other words, the test as to likelihood
> of confusion or deception arising from similarity of marks is the same both
> in infringement and passing-off actions."

FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 12 of 19

16\. In Amritdhara Pharmacy (supra), the Supreme Court held that the word
"LAXMANDHARA" was likely to deceive and confuse persons into believing that
they were, in fact, purchasing the product under the mark „AMRITDHARA‟. The
Supreme Court observed that the question of deceptive similarity must be
approached from the point of view of a man of average intelligence and
imperfect recollection. The Supreme Court further observed that: -

> ".. overall structural and phonetic similarity of the two names „AMRITDHARA‟
> and „LAXMANDHARA‟ is, in our opinion, likely to deceive or cause confusion."

The Supreme Court also observed that:-

"The trademark is the whole thing - the whole word has to be considered."

In Kaviraj Pandit (supra), the Supreme Court, once again considered the
differences between an infringement action and a passing off action. The
Supreme Court observed that:-

> "In an action for infringement, the plaintiff, must, no doubt, make out that
> the use of the defendant‟s mark is likely to deceive, but where the
> similarity between the plaintiff‟s and the defendant‟s mark is so close,
> either visually, phonetically or otherwise, the court reaches the conclusion
> that there is imitation, no further evidence is required to establish that
> the plaintiff‟s rights are violated."

17\. The marks „GLUCOVITA‟ and „GLUVITA‟ came up for consideration in an
infringement action before the Supreme Court in Corn Products (supra). The
Supreme Court observed that it is well-known that the question whether the two
marks are likely to give rise to confusion or not is a question of first
impression and that it is for the court to decide that FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 13
of 19 question. The Supreme Court observed that the only difference between
the marks „GLUCOVITA‟ and „GLUVITA‟ was the syllable „CO‟ in the appellants
mark. Apart from that, the two marks were identical. The Supreme Court further
observed that the said syllable "CO‟ was not, in their opinion, such as would
enable the buyers in our country to distinguish the one mark from the other.
The Supreme Court also held:-

> "It is well recognised that in deciding a question of similarity between two
> marks, the marks have to be considered as a whole."

18\. Importantly, the Supreme Court also observed that:-

> "... the idea of the two marks is the same. The marks convey the ideas of
> glucose and life giving properties of vitamins. The Aquamatic case (Harry
> Reynolds v. Laffeaty's Ld.: 1958 R.P.C. 387) is a recent case where the test
> of the commonness of the idea between two marks was applied in deciding the
> question of similarity between them. Again, in deciding the question of
> similarity between the two marks we have to approach it from the point of
> view of a man of average intelligence and of imperfect recollection. To such
> a man the overall structural and phonetic similarity and the similarity of
> the idea in the two marks is reasonably likely to cause a confusion between
> them."

19\. In Amar Singh Chawal Wala (supra), the registered trademarks were „LAL
QUILLA‟, „GOLDEN QUILLA‟ and „NEEL QUILLA‟ and the infringing mark was „HARA
QUILLA‟. A Division Bench of this court held that the essential feature of the
registered trademark was the word „QUILLA‟ and, therefore, the mark „HARA
QUILLA‟ was found to be deceptively similar to the registered trademark „LAL
QUILLA‟. The court observed that there is every possibility of there being a
confusion created in FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 14 of 19 the minds of the purchasers
of rice that the product being sold by the defendant (in that case) was, in
fact, a product that had emanated from or had been manufactured by the
plaintiff (in that case). The court also took the view that the delay in
approaching the court by itself would not be a sufficient defence to an
interim injunction in the event the court takes the view that ultimately, a
permanent injunction would be granted.

20\. In Metropol (supra), a Division Bench of this court was required to
consider the marks „CLEANZO‟, which was the registered mark and „CLEANJO‟,
which was the alleged infringing mark. In the said decision, the Division
Bench held that the learned single Judge was not justified in giving a
clarification that the defendant was entitled to trade its product under the
trademark „PRAVEEN CLEANJO‟ and the Division Bench observed that the use of
the very word "CLEANJO" whether with the prefix „PRAVEEN‟ or otherwise, was
definitely likely to have an effect of creating confusion in respect of the
cleaning goods and was likely to deceive the purchaser of the goods.

21\. In Parle Products Pvt. Ltd (supra), the Supreme Court observed as under:-

> "9. It is, therefore, clear that in order to come to the conclusion whether
> one mark is deceptively similar to another, the broad and essential features
> of the two are to be considered. They should not be placed side by side to
> find out if there are any differences in the design and if so, whether they
> are of such character as to prevent one design from being mistaken for the
> other. It would be enough if the impugned mark bears such an overall
> similarity to the registered mark as would be likely to mislead a person
> usually dealing with one to accept the other if offered to him. In this case
> we find that the packets are practically of FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 15 of 19
> the same size, the colour scheme of the two wrappers is almost the same; the
> design on both though not identical bears such a close resemblance that one
> can essily be mistaken for the other. The essential features of both are
> that there is a girl with one arm raised and carrying something in the other
> with a cow or cows near her and hens or chickens in the foreground. In the
> background there is a farm house with a fence. The word "Gluco Biscuits" in
> one and "Glucose Biscuits" on the other occupy a prominent place at the top
> with a good deal of similarity between the two writings. Anyone in our
> opinion who has a look at one of the packets today may easily mistake the
> other if shown on another day as being the same article which he had seen
> before. If one was not careful enough to note the peculiar features of the
> wrapper on the plaintiffs‟ goods, he might easily mistake the defendants‟
> wrapper for the plaintiffs‟ if shown to him some time after he had seen the
> plaintiffs‟. After all, an ordinary purchaser is not gifted with the powers
> of observation of a Sherlock Homes. We have therefore no doubt that the
> defendants‟ wrapper is deceptively similar to the plaintiffs‟ which was
> registered. We do not think it necessary to refer to the decisions referred
> to at the bar as in our view each case will have to be judged on its own
> features and it would be of no use to note on how many points there was
> similarity and in how many others there was absence of it."

22\. The following principles can be culled out from the aforesaid decisions:-

> 1\. The test of deceptive similarity in the case of infringement is the same
> as in a passing off action, where the marks are not identical;

> 2\. The question has to be approached from the point of view of a man with
> average intelligence and imperfect recollection;

> 3\. In comparing the marks, it is the overall structural and phonetic
> similarity of the two marks that is to be seen and not by splitting them
> into their component parts and to consider the etymological meaning thereof;

> 4\. The trademark is the whole thing - the whole word has to be considered;
> and FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 16 of 19

> 5\. In comparing the two marks, it is also to be seen whether they both
> convey the same idea - (test of commonness of the idea between the two
> marks).

23\. It is in this backdrop that we have to compare the marks of the
appellants and those of the respondents. The respondents‟ registered trademark
is „CLINIQUE‟. It also has other registered trademarks which all include the
word „CLINIQUE‟. „CLINIQUE‟ is a French word for the English word „Clinic‟.
Both are pronounced differently. „CLINIC‟ is pronounced as „KLINIK‟ and
„CLINIQUE‟ is pronounced as "KLINECK". "CLINIQUE" is the most important
constituent of the respondents‟ family of trademarks. The question is, whether
the mark of the appellants - "SKINCLINIQ" is deceptively similar to „CLINIQUE‟
or not? It is apparent, as already pointed out above, that "CLINIQUE" and
"SKINCLINIQ" are not identical marks. The question, therefore, is to find out
as to whether they are deceptively similar or not and this question has to be
approached from the point of view of a man with an average intelligence and an
imperfect recollection. In comparing „CLINIQUE‟ with „SKINCLINIQ‟, what has to
be borne in mind is the overall structural and phonetic similarity of the two
marks and the marks cannot be separated into their components. Consequently,
we have to take the mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ as a whole in comparison with the
respondents‟ registered mark „CLINIQUE‟. When we do that, we do not find any
overall structural or phonetic similarity. We cannot separate the mark
„SKINCLINIQ‟ into its component parts „SKIN‟ and „CLINIQ‟ and then compare the
component FAO (OS) 222/09 Page 17 of 19 „CLINIQ‟ with the respondents mark
„CLINIQUE‟. If such a splitting up cannot be done, then we do not see any
phonetic, visual or overall structural similarity in the two marks, „CLINIQUE‟
and „SKINCLINIQ‟, so as to reach to the conclusion that „SKINCLINIQ‟ is
deceptively similar to „CLINIQUE‟. The word „clinic‟ by itself means a place
where some kind of treatment is provided. So, perhaps, it could be said that
the word „CLINIQUE‟ conveys the idea of some kind of treatment. To a certain
extent, it may be said that the mark „CLINIQUE‟ and the mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ do
convey a common idea of treatment. However, as pointed out above, while
comparing the marks, we have to examine not only the commonness of the idea
between the two marks, but also the overall visual, structural and phonetic
similarity of the marks. Taking an overall view of the marks, we feel that a
person of average intelligence and imperfect recollection would not be
deceived by the mark „SKINCLINIQ‟ into believing that it is, in fact, the mark
„CLINIQUE‟. We feel that the learned single judge fell into error in splitting
the appellants‟ mark "SKINCLINIQ‟ into „SKIN‟ and „CLINIQ‟ and in then
comparing the latter component (CLINIQ) with the respondents‟ mark „CLINIQUE‟.
Had the appellants‟ mark been only „CLINIQ‟ then, perhaps, it could be said
that it is deceptively similar to the respondents‟ mark „CLINIQUE‟. However,
the appellants‟ mark is not just „CLINIQ‟ but „SKINCLINIQ‟, which is one word
and not two separate words as in Rustam‟s case and Cleanzo‟s case. FAO (OS)
222/09 Page 18 of 19

24\. Another important circumstance is that the price differential between the
two products is so vast that no consumer of products of either the appellant
or the respondent would confuse one for the other. We, therefore, do not agree
with the conclusion arrived at by the learned single Judge that, prima facie,
a case of infringement has been made out. We would also like to point out that
the conclusion arrived at by us has been on the assumption that the
appellants‟ trademarks are not registered or if registered, such registrations
were invalid. We have not gone into that question of registration and its
validity for the simple reason that the rectification proceedings are pending
and the suit has been adjourned in view of Section 124(1) of the said Act and
the counsel agreed that the issue of Section 124 need not be gone into for
deciding this appeal.

Consequently, we allow this appeal and set aside the order of the learned
single Judge to the extent that he allowed IA No.15425/2008 and dismissed IA
No.217/2009. The injunction granted by the learned single Judge stands
vacated. The parties are left to bear their own costs.

BADAR DURREZ AHMED, J VEENA BIRBAL, J JULY 09, 2010 dutt FAO (OS) 222/09 Page
19 of 19

