

Gujarat High Court

Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd. vs The Wellcome Foundation Ltd. on 11 July, 2001

Equivalent citations: 2002 (24) PTC 580 Guj

Author: K Mehta

Bench: K Mehta

JUDGMENT K.M. Mehta, J.

1\. M/s. Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd-original applicant-appellant-petitioners
herein have filed this appeal against the judgment and order, dated 19.8.94
passed by the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks the respondent No. 2 herein
wherein he has allowed the opposition No. AMD 425 filed by Wellcome Foundation
Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "the opponent No.1") and application No.
483813 in class 5 of Fourth Schedule of the Act is ordered to be refused for
registration under the provisions of Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, 1958
(hereinafter referred to as "the Act").

2\. FACTS:

2.1 The appellants are company incorporated under the provisions of the
Companies Act and carrying on business at Ahmedabad.

2.2 The appellants filed application on 1.5.1988 and applied for registration
of Trade Mark "TROVIREX" vide application No. 433813 in class 5 of Fourth
Schedule of the Act in respect of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations.
The aforesaid application was accepted for registration by the respondent No.
2 herein and was accordingly advertised in Trade Mark Journal No. 102 dated
1.3.1992 on page 1479 of journal No. 1026 dated 1.3.92. Copy of the said trade
mark journal has been produced at Exh. A to the memo of appeal.

2.3 The Wellcome Foundation Ltd., an English Company, respondent No. 1 herein
gave a notice on 27.4.92 of their intention to oppose the registration of the
trade mark advertised as aforesaid on the ground of its violation of Sections
9, 11(a), 11(e), 12(1) and 18(1) of the Act. On 27.7.92 the applicants
contested the said notice of opposition by filing their counter statement
(under Section 26 of the Act) consisting the grounds in support of the
registration of the application as well as the grounds in rebuttal to the
objections taken by the opponents in their notice of opposition. The opponents
objected to the said application on the ground that one of their trade marks
are ZOVIRAX which was registered since 17.8.77 in class 5 and another ZOVIREX
in class 5 in respect of pharmaceuticals and medicinal preparations and
substances having registered since 17.8.77 and 14.4.78. respectively.

2.4 The opponent-respondent No. 1 on 30.3.93 filed evidence in support of
their opposition by way of affidavit, dated 24.3.93 in the name of Shri Alan
Sinclair Cox-Trade Marks Manager in the opponents company annexing therewith
list of various trade marks of the opponents registered in different countries
in the world which was produced at annexure "A" to the said affidavit. In the
said affidavit it was stated that in India, their company conducts its
business through its associate company, Burroughs Wellcome (India) Ltd. having
address at Bombay in which their company has an equity stake of 40%. It was
further stated that the company has permitted Burroughs Wellcome (India) Ltd.
to use, inter alia, its trade marks in relation to its goods only so long as
they are manufactured and marketed by Burroughs Wellcome (India) Ltd. It has
also decided to manufacture in strict accordance with the specifications,
formulae and standards of quality laid down, directions and instructions given
and information supplied by the company only so long as the company through
its authorised representatives has the right and is permitted to inspect the
goods made and sold by Burroughs Wellcome (India) Ltd. It was further stated
that owing to the control and supervision exercised by the company over
Burroughs Wellcome (India) Ltd. the goods produced and sold by Burroughs
Wellcome (India) Ltd. under Zovirax-series of trade marks or any of them
conform to international standards of quality and thus command great
reputation and valuable goodwill among members of the medical profession,
pharmaceutical industry and the relevant class of patients in India.

2.5 The applicant filed affidavit in reply in support of application on
28.5.93. The affidavit was filed in the name of Shri Divyang R. Shah, the
company Secretary of the applicant-Company.

2.6..The opponents filed their reply evidence on 12/11/1993 by way of
affidavit, dated 21.10.1993 in the name of Shri Alan Sinclair Cox - the Trade
Marks Manager of their company.

2.7 The Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks thereafter heard the application of
the opponents somewhere on 28.1.1994 when respective counsel for the
applicants and opponents appeared before him.

2.8 After hearing the parties, the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks, by his
order, dated 19.8.1994 came to conclusion that the marks, i.e. marks of
applicant and opponents have the highest degree of resemblance visually as
well as phonetically. The Assistant Registrar also came to conclusion that the
mark applied for, i.e. TROVIREX is deceptively similar to the opponents'
registered trade marks namely ZOVIREX and ZOVIREX. The Assistant Registrar
also came to conclusion that on perusal of the record he did not find any
evidence that the mark applied for is in respect of Schedule "H" drug. The
Assistant Registrar also came to conclusion that the mark applied for is so
nearly resembling to the opponents' registered trade mark as to likely to
deceive or cause confusion, hence, are the deceptively similar trade marks,
and it was held that both the conditions required to invoke the prohibition
contained under Section 12(1) of the Act are fulfilled, therefore, the
registration of the mark applied for namely TROVIREX is prohibited by
operation of Section 12(1) of the Act. The Assistant Registrar also came to
conclusion that the proposed use of the mark applied for which is deceptively
similar to the opponents' trade marks shall definitely create confusion in the
mind of consumers who are acquainted with the opponents' product under their
aforesaid trade marks. The registration of the mark applied for is, therefore,
prohibited by operation of Section 11(a) of the Act. In view of the same, the
Assistant Registrar allowed the opposition of the opponent and refused the
registration of the applicant-Trade mark.

3\. STATUTORY BACKGROUND:

3.1 The Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the
Act") has been enacted to provide for the registration and better protection
of trade marks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks on
merchandise.

3.2 Section 2(1)(d) provides definition of "Deceptively similar" means a mark
shall be deemed to be deceptively similar to another mark, if it so nearly
resembles that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause confusion.

3.3 Section 2(1)(j) provides definition of "mark" means "mark" includes a
device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter or
numeral or any combination thereof."

3.4 Section 2(1)(p) defines "registered" means "registered under this Act".

3.5 Section 2(1)(r) defines "registered the trade mark" means "a trade mark
which is actually on the register." r 3.6 Section 2(1)(v) defines "trade mark"
means -

(i) in relation to chapter X (other than Section 81) a registered trade mark
or a mark used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to
indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some
persons having the right as proprietor to use the mark; and

(ii) in relation to other provisions of this Act, a mark used or proposed to
be used in relation to goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to
indicate a connection in the course of trade between the goods and some person
having the right, either as proprietor or as registered user, to use the mark
whether with our without any indication of the identity of that person, and
includes a certification trade mark registered as such under the provisions of
Chapter VIII.

Chapter II provides for Register and Conditions for Registration.

Chapter III provides for Procedure for and duration of Registration 3.7
Section 9 provides for requisites for registration in Parts A & B of the
register.

3.8 Section 11 provides for prohibition of registration of certain marks and
reads as under: A mark --

    
    
    (a)      The use of which would be likely to deceive or cause confusion, or
     
    
    (b)      The use of which would be contrary to any law for the time being in force, or
     
    
    (c)      Which comprises or contains scandalous or obscene matter, or
     
    
    (d)      Which comprises or contains any matter likely to hurt the religious susceptibilities of any class or section of the citizens of India, or
    which would otherwise be disentitled to protection in a court shall not be
    registered as a trade mark. 
     
    
    3.9 Section 12 provides for prohibition of registration of identical or deceptively similar trade marks and reads as under :
       
    
    (1)      Save as provided in Sub-section (3), no trade mark shall be registered in respect of any goods or description of goods which is identical with or deceptively similar to a trade mark which is already registered in the name of a different proprietor in respect of the same goods or description of goods.
     
    
    (2)      Where separate applications are made by different persons to be registered as proprietors respectively of trade marks which are identical or nearly resemble each other in respecfr of the same goods or description of goods, the registrar may defer the acceptance of the application or applications bearing a later date until after the determination of the proceedings in respect of the earlier application, and may dispose of such application or applications in the light of the evidence tendered in relation to earlier application and the oppositions thereto, if any.
     
    
    (3)      In case of honest concurrent use or of other special circumstances which, in the opinion of the Registrar, make it proper so to do, he may permit the registration by more than one proprietor of trade marks which are identical or nearly resemble each other (whether any such trade mark is already registered or not) in respect of the same goods or description of goods, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any as the Registrar may think fit to impose. 
     
    
    

3.10 Chapter III provides for procedure for duration of registration. Section
18 provides for application for registration. This section provides as to how
application for registration to be made. Once Registrar accepts the
application for registration, the application is required to be advertised
under Section 20 in Trade Mark journal. Once such application is advertised
there may be opposition for registration of trade mark in favour of applicants
and therefore Section 21 makes provision for lodging such opposition and as to
how such opposition is to be dealt with.

3.11 Section 21 reads as under :

"Section 21. Opposition to registration:

(1) Any person may within three months from the date of the advertisement or
re-advertisement of an application for registration or within such further
period not exceeding one month in the aggregate, as the Registrar, on
application made to him in the prescribed manner and on payment of the
prescribed fee, allows, give notice in writing in the prescribed manner to the
Registrar of opposition to the registration.

(2) The registrar shall serve a copy of the notice on the application for
registration and within two months from the receipt by the applicant of such
copy of the notice of opposition, the applicant shall send to the Registrar in
the prescribed manner a counter statement of the grounds on which he relies
for his application and if he does not do so, he shall be deemed to have
abandoned his application.

    
    
    (3)     If the applicant sends such counter statement the Registrar shall serve a copy thereof on the person giving notice of opposition.
     
    
    (4)      Any evidence upon which the opponent and the applicant may rely shall be submitted in the prescribed manner and within prescribed time to the Registrar, and the Registrar shall give' an opportunity to them to be heard if they so desire.
     
    
    (5)      The Registrar shall, after hearing the parties, if so required, and considering the evidence decide whether and subject to what conditions or limitations, if any, the registration is to be permitted, and may take into account a ground of objection whether relied upon by the opponent or not.
     
    
    

(6)Where a person giving notice of opposition or an applicant sending a
counter statement after receipt of a copy of such notice neither resides nor
carries on business in India, the Registrar may require him to give security
for the costs of proceedings before him and in default of such security being
duly given, may treat the opposition or application, as the case may be, as
abandoned.

4\. Shri R.R. Shah, the Ld. advocate for the appellant has made the following
submissions :

4.1 He has stated that the learned Assistant Registrar of Trade marks has
completely misdirected himself in passing the order under Section 12(1) of the
Act against the appellants. He has further stated that the learned Assistant
Registrar of Trade Marks has failed to consider the application even in
Section 12(3) of the Act. He has further stated that the learned Assistant
Registrar of Trade Marks has completely misdirected himself in passing the
order under Section 11(a) of the Act against the appellants. He has submitted
that the learned Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks has failed to consider the
fact that the prefix of a mark or a first syllabi is important while
considering the rival marks as to whether they are identical or deceptively
similar to each other. He has further stated that the learned Assistant
Registrar of Trade Marks has erred in appreciating the fact that the
appellants" trade mark applied for is to be used in respect of schedule "H"
drug. That the learned Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks has failed to
consider that the mark applied for is an invented one and does not conflict
with the trade mark ZOVIRAX of the respondent No. 1. The learned Assistant
Registrar also failed to appreciate consider that the respondent No. 1 has not
filed any evidence of user of the trade mark ZOVIREX in India.

4.2 The learned counsel has relied on the judgment of the Division Bench of
this court (Coram : R. Balia & A.R. Dave, JJ.) decided in OJ Appeal No. 11/93
decided on 8.12.1998. In that case the question before the Division Bench was
as to whether the registration of trade mark "Ulciban" was deceptively similar
to the trade mark "CIBA" of the opponent or not. The Division Bench was
pleased to make following observations:

"In comparing two work marks to find out what is the essential feature of the
mark in use and the mark proposed to be used, the first syllable provides an
important guideline which is of utmost importance in the word mark.

The test of relative resemblance between comparative marks must depend upon
whether the proposed mark contains element of earlier mark in its essential
character in prominent way. If the same is used with its projection in any
manner prominently, so as to create an impression that addendums are
superfluous, the same may be ignored and the substance of the matter may be
seen, but at the same time, merely because those very letters in the same
order are part of a different word, which is independent of other, the latter
can not be denounced by straining to find out similarity. The likelihood of
deception must be in ordinary and spontaneous reaction to the marks and not
through a strained of an expert.

In this connection, it is very relevant that somebody buying a prescribed drug
is not really concerned with trade origin of the drug. He is most concerned
with what has been prescribed by the doctor. Moreover, as we have noticed
above, confusion can be caused in three ways, confusion as to goods, confusion
as to trade origin and confusion as to trade connection. In the matter of
dispensation of medicinal preparation, test relates to trade origin or trade
connection is not of much importance inasmuch as average man of common
intelligence who has to purchase drugs on doctor's prescription is not
concerned either with trade origin or trade connection, but with the goods
itself. This confusion which is likely to be caused in that field attracts
more importance than other factors.

What is to be considered in the context of inhibition under Section 11 is the
probable effect of normal and fair use of applicant's mark and not by assuming
strained and unfair abnormal use by any unscrupulous men and public. In other
words, the test is by assuming that mark sought to be registered is to be used
in fair and normal way and by user in such way, what is its probable effect
vis-a-vis impression of actual user of the opponent's mark.

4.3 Mr. R.R. Shah in support of his contentions relied on the judgment
reported in Johann A Wulfing v. Chemical Industrial & Phannaceutical
Laboratories Ltd., AIR 1984 Bombay 281. In that case the Bombay High Court was
considering whether the word CIPLAMINA is deceptively similar to word
COMPLAMINA. In para 8 of its judgment the Division Bench of the Bombay High
Court held as under :

"The court is not concerned with hypothetical possibilities but with ordinary
practical business probabilities having regard to the circumstances of the
case. (F. Hoffmann Roche v. Sanitex Chemical Industries, (1965) 67 Bom LR
729). In the present case, all things considered, (visually and phonetically).
We do not see any real tangible danger of 'confusion in the mind of the public
which will lead to confusion in the goods" (Pianotist case, (1906) 23 RFC 774
at p. 777)".

4.4 The learned counsel for appellants has also relied on the judgment $f
Bombay High Court in the case of Cluett Peabody & Co. Inc. v. Arrow Apparals,
1998 PTC (18) 156. In that case the plaintiff filed suit to restrain
infringement plaintiff Nos. 1 registered trade mark "ARROW" consisting of word
mark "ARROW" and also the device of "ARROW" in relation to ready made
garments. The suit was also to restrain the defendant from in any manner using
in relation to ready garments the infringed mark "ARROW" and of device 'ARROW'
or any mark deceptively similar thereto on deceptively similar to any marks
mentioned in Exh. A to the plaint so as to pass of or enable others to pass of
the goods of the defendants as and for the goods of the plaintiffs. On page
178 the court observed as under:

"The suit is rightly filed by the plaintiffs because they are the registered
proprietors of the trade mark. This position can not be disputed. However, in
the present case, this case is of the opinion that the defendants have made
out a strong prima facie case that they have used the mark right from 1985 to
the knowledge of the World at oarge and without any interruption." The court
on page 180 observed as under:

"There is no prima facie evidence of user by the plaintiffs in India of the
mark ARROW either by affixing the mark on goods or in relation to the goods of
the plaintiffs in India. All the advertisements are post 1991. I am not
inclined to rely upon the advertisements of 1980 in TIME magazine. There is
nothing to indicate that TIME magazine in 1980 was available on the counter in
India. In fact, it is contended by the defendants that TIME magazine was not
available to the public in India during the relevant period. There is no
evidence of the reputation of the plaintiffs coming to India before 1985.
Therefore, taking into the above facts, there is a strong effect of delay on
the nature of the relief and I am not inclined to grant injunction in favour
of the plaintiffs."

4.5 Learned counsel has also relied on the judgment of this court in the case
of Cadbury India Limited v. S.M. Dyechem Limited, 41(1) GLR 680. In that case
the plaintiff registered a label mark PIKNIK with particular design for
marketing potato chips, wafers etc. with defendant marketing chocolate product
in the name of CAD-BURA PICNIC. On page 699 at page 39 it is observed thus:

"In these circumstances, there is absolutely no scope of any deception or
confusion or passing off. The products of the defendant and the plaintiff are
distinct and there is also no scope of passing off because the defendant's
products are brought because of the defendant's reputation as Cadbury. In the
instant case, even the labels of the defendant and the plaintiff are different
and distinctive and there is no scope of confusion and deception in the mind
of an average buyer. In view of the aforesaid discussion, there is no scope of
passing off the defendant's goods as and for that of the plaintiff."

At para 40 it is further observed as under:

"In view of the discussion made in the foregoing paragraphs, following aspects
are high-lighted:

(i) Plaintiffs trade mark having a label containing the word "PIKNIK' written
in a particular script and manner with a caricature of a little boy above it
though registered having a phonetic similarity to the word found in dictionary
word picnic.

    
    
    (ii)      The word PIKNIK on that label is neither invented nor a distinctive word and it is also not an essential feature of the plaintiff's trade mark which is a legal. Therefore, no action for infringement against the defendant can lie.
     
    
    (iii)      Since registration which is granted to the plaintiff is a label mark, such  registration does not prevent any one from  using  the dictionary word Picnic with respect to its goods and therefore also no action of infringement would take place.
     
    
    (iv)      The articles manufactured and marketed by both the plaintiff and defendant are different and therefore also no action of infringement would arise.
     
    
    (v)      So far as passing off is concerned, both the products are different, labels are different and, therefore, no scope of confusion or deception in the mind of common buyer. Therefore, there is no scope of passing off the goods of the defendant as and for that of the plaintiff.
     
    
    (vi)      Since there is no infringement, there is no prima facie case.
     
    
    (vii)      In view of the new formula elucidated in the case of American Cyanamid (supra) balance of convenience is tilted in favour of the defendant. If it appears that the damages awarded at the trial will adequately compensate the plaintiff and the defendant is likely to be able to pay, then, interlocutory relief should not normally be granted. Applying this principle to the present case, it appears to me that to grant an injunction will be to cut off for good the road to commercial success bf a business competitor. In the event of the plaintiffs success damages will be an adequate remedy. The defendant's financial position to pay damages has not been questioned before me and they are prepared to give an undertaking. Therefore, the balance of convenience lies in favour of refusing the interlocutory relief that is sought." 
     
    
    

4.6 The learned counsel for the petitioner has further relied on the decision
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of S.M. Dyechem Ltd. v. Cadbury
(India) Ltd., (2000) 5 SCC 573 where the appeal arose out of the judgment of
this court in the case of Cadbury (India) Ltd. v. S.M. Dyechem Ltd. (supra).
On page 596 at para 35, the Hon'ble Court has observed as follows :

"It appears to us that this Court did not have occasion to decide, as far as
we are able to see, an issue where there were also differences in essential
features nor to consider the extent to which the differences are to be given
importance over similarities. Such a question has arisen in the present case
and that is why we have referred to the principles of English law relating to
differences in essential features which principles, in our opinion, are
equally applicable in our country."

4.7 Ultimately the Hon'ble Court has confirmed the view of this court and
dismissed the appeal.

5\. Ld. Counsel appearing for opponent company, Mr. J.P. Vyas, has submitted
as under.

5.1 The proposed trade mark of the appellant TROVIREX can not be registered as
the use of which would be likely to deceive or cause confusion and which is
identical with or deceptively similar to the already existing registered trade
mark of the respondent ZOVIREX under Section 11(a) and Section 12(1) of the
Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.

5.2 The test to be applied in determining whether two marks are identical with
or too nearly resembles each other or is likely to deceive or cause confusion
or deceptively similar is in nutshell the test of an average person with
imperfect recollection. The court has to visualise a customer or a tradesman
or a citizen who may happen to have dealings with the company complaining or
who may happen to want to purchase the goods manufactured such company and
decide whether such a customer or tradesman or citizen would get confused and
whether an ordinary citizen who may have occasion to deal with the company in
the course of business dealings would mistake one for the other.

5.3 On perusal of the record he does not find any evidence that the mark
applied for is in respect of schedule "H" drug and the goods, as revealed by
the applicants (i.e. appellants) in their application are medicinal and
pharmaceutical preparations but all medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations
are not schedule H drugs as per the drugs and cosmetic rules. Since there is
no mention of any specific drug in respect of which the mark applied for is
proposed to be used, it can not be taken that the mark applied for is in
respect of schedule H drugs.

5.4 That though such medicines like that of an appellant may be sold on
doctor's prescription, but it is not unknown that the same are also available
across the counter in shops of various chemists. It is also not unknown that
the chemists who may not have TROVIREX may give ZOVIREX to an unwary purchaser
with imperfect recollections. In the present circumstances Doctor's
prescription factor has lost is importance since the reality of the situation
can not be ignored. In India scheduled drugs which are to be sold under
doctor's prescription are even sold without production of doctor's
prescription and as such reduces the weightage that can be given to this
aspect of the matter while considering the question deceptive similarity. The
marks TROVIREX and ZOVIREX are so identical and deceptively similar to each
other that it outweighs the weightage to be given to the factor that the goods
are scheduled drugs.

5.5. The respondent's trade mark is international trade mark has acquired an
international reputation and good will and is registered in almost all the
countries across the globe including India. (See pages 46 to 57) of the paper
books showing the registration of trade mark of the respondent across the
globe and see para 3 on page 38, para 4,5 and 6 on page 39 and para 7 on page
40 of the affidavit in support of the opposition). Thus, the respondent is not
required to show the actual performance or volume of sales in India. A company
with a reputation which is established internationally can sue to protect it
in this country even if it does not have any business activity here.

5.6 In other words, reputation of a product may precede its introduction and
may exist without trade in such product in the country. Where the two products
in question were pharmaceutical preparations with deceptive similarity and the
foreign manufacturer company choose the name first and use it on its product
in several countries around the world excluding India whereafter the Indian
company entered the market with their product and the foreign company together
with certain Indian pharmaceutical companies set up a joint venture company
for sale of its products in India and had applied for registration of the
disputed trade mark before the Registrar of Trade Marks. Indian company can be
restrained from using the trade mark. Moreover, if it is possible for a
purchaser of the Indian Company's product in India to do so under the
impression that he is buying the foreign company's product, the Indian company
as the subsequent adopter of the mark must be restrained from doing so.
Further, once the foreign product is released in the Indian market, the
consequences may well prove disastrous given the fact that in India drugs are
available without prescription.

5.7 Even if the appellant confines its mark to antiviral drug scheduled H or
confines its sale within the territory of India. The possibility of likelihood
of the confusion or deceptive similarity between the two marks can not be
eliminated as the respondent is already treading with the goods under the
trade mark ZOVIREX in India. Even if it is assumed that the respondent is not
trading in India, by confining the trading within the territory of India by
the appellant would not eliminate the chances of likelihood of confusion and
deceptive similarity.

5.8 The Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks having held that the use of
TROVIREX (petitioner's application) would likely to deceive or cause confusion
within the meaning of Section 11(a) and having held that the petitioner's
trade mark TROVIREX is identical with and deceptively similar to the trade-
mark of the respondent ZOVIREX has rightly not exercised discretion in favour
of petitioner by allowing the petitioner to have its trade mark registered
under Section 12(3) of the Trade Mark Act as Section 12(3) empowers the
registrar to permit registration only under Section 12 of the Trade Mark Act
but the said discretionary power can not be extended beyond Section 12
especially when the trade mark in the present case is not only found likely to
deceive or cause confusion under Section 11(a) but also found identical with
or deceptively similar to the respondent's trade mark under Section 12(1) of
the Act.

5.9 The Assistant registrar was right in not exercising a discretionary power
under Section 12(3) as the same requires as a condition precedent of the
honest con current use which is lacking in the present facts of the case. :

5.10 The learned counsel has relied on the recent judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in the case of Cadila Health Care Limited v. Cadila
Pharmaceutical Limited, JT 2001 (4) SC 243 where the Apex Court was
considering the question of temporary injunction in relation to trade mark
that the plaintiff was manufacturing "Falcigo" whereas the defendant was
manufacturing "Falcitab". The drug only to be sold to hospitals and
institutions for treatment of the same disease. The Trial Court did not grant
injunction and also the High Court did not grant injunction. Thereafter, the
matter went to the Hon'ble Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Supreme Court after
considering its earlier decisions including judgment in the case of F.
Hoffmann-la Roche & Co. Ltd. v. Geoffrey Manner & Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1969(2) SCC
716 on page 760 at para 31 has observed as under :

"Trademark is essentially adopted to advertise one's product and to make it
known to the purchaser. It attempts to portray the nature and, if possible,
the quality of the product and over a period of time the mark may become
popular. It is usually at that stage that other people are tempted to pass off
their products as that of the original owner of the mark. That is why it is
said that in a passing off action, the plaintiffs right is "against the
conduct of the defendant which leads to or is intended or calculated to lead
to deception. Passing off is said to be a species of unfair trade competition
or of actionable unfair trading by which one person, through deception,
attempts to obtain an economic benefit of the reputation which other has
established for himself in a particular trade or business. The action is
regarded as an action for deceit" (See Wander Ltd. v. Antox India Pvt. Ltd.,
(1990 Suppl SCC 727)"

Again in para 32 the Hon'ble Court further observed thus :

"Public interest would support lesser degree of proof showing confusing
similarity n the case of trademark in respect of medicinal product as against
other non-medicinal products. Drugs are poisons, not sweets. Confusion between
medicinal products may, therefore, be life threatening, not merely
inconvenient. Nothing the frailty of human nature and the pressures placed by
society on doctors, there should be as many clear indicators as possible to
distinguish two medicinal products from each other. It is not uncommon that in
hospitals, drugs can be requested verbally and/or under critical pressure
situations. Many patients may be elderly, infirm or illiterate. They may not
be in a position to differentiate between the medicine prescribed and bought
which is ultimately handed over to them. This view finds support from McCarthy
on Trademarks, 3rd Edition, para 23.12 of which reads as under:

"The tests of confusing similarity are modified when the goods involved are
medicinal products. Confusion of source or product between medicinal products
may produce physically harmful results to purchasers and greater protection is
required than in the ordinary case. If the goods involved are medicinal
products each with different effects and designed for even subtly different
uses, confusion among the products caused by similar marks could have
disastrous effects. For these reasons, it is proper to require a lesser
quantum of proof of confusing similarity for drugs and medicinal preparations.
The same standard has been applied to medicinal products such as surgical
sutures and clavicle splints." On page 262 at para 35 it is held as under:

"Broadly stated in an action for passing off on the basis of unregistered
trademark generally for deciding the question of deceptive similarity the
following factors to be considered :

    
    
    (a)      The nature of the marks i.e. whether the marks are word marks or label marks or composite marks i.e. both words and label works.
     
    
    (b)      The degree of resemblance between the marks, phonetically      similar and hence similar in idea.
     
    
    (c)      The nature of the goods in respect of which they are used as the trade marks.
     
    
    (d)     The similarity in the nature, character and performance of the goods of the rival traders.
     
    
    (e)      The class of purchasers who are likely to buy the goods bearing the marks they require, on their education and intelligence and a degree of care they are likely to exercise in purchasing and/or using the goods.
     
    
    (f)      The mode of purchasing the goods or placing orders for the goods, and
     
    
    (g)      Any other surrounding circumstances which may be relevant in
    the extent of dissimilarity between the competing marks,"    
     
    
    

5.11 As regards earlier judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
S.M. Dyechem Ltd. v. Cadbury (India) Ltd. (supra), a three Judge Bench of the
Supreme Court has partly dissented from ratio of the said judgment in the case
of Cadila Health Care Ltd. (supra). The Hon'ble Supreme Court has observed in
paragraph Nos. 18,19,20 thus :-

"Para 18 - We are unable to agree with the aforesaid observations in Dyechem's
case (supra). As far as this Court is concerned, the decisions in the last
four decades have clearly laid down that what has to be seen in the case of a
passing off action is the similarity between the competing marks and to
determine whether there is likelihood of deception or causing confusion. This
is evident from the decisions of this Court in National Sewing Thread Co,
Ltd's case, (AIR 1953 SC 357), Com. Products Refining Company's case, (1960
(1) SCR 968), Amritdhara Pharmacy's case, (AIR 1963 SC 449), Durga Dutt Sharma
's case, (AIR 1965 SC 9'30\ Hoffmann-La Roche & Co. Ltd's case (supra). Having
come to the confusion, in our opinion incorrectly, that the difference in
essential features is relevant, this Court in Dyechem's case (supra) sought to
examine the difference in the two marks "Piknic" and "Picnic". It applied
three tests, they being (1) is there any special aspect of the common feature
which has been copied ? (2) mode in which the parts are put together
differently i.e. whether dissimilarity of the part or parts is enough to make
the whole thing dissimilar and (3) whether when there are common elements,
should one not pay more regard to the parts which are not common while at the
same time not disregarding the common parts ? In examining the marks, keeping
the aforesaid three tests in mind, it came to the conclusion, seeing the
manner in which the two words were written and the peculiarity of the script
and concluded that "the above three dissimilarities have to be given more
importance than the phonetic similarity or the similarity in the use of the
word PICNIC for PIKNIK.

Para 19 - With respect, we are unable to agree that the principle of phonetic
similarity has to be jettisoned when the manner in which the competing words
are written is different and the conclusion so arrived at is clearly contrary
to the binding precedent of this Court in Amritdhani's case (supra) where the
phonetic similarity was applied by judging the two competing marks. Similarly,
in Durga Dutt Shanna's case (supra), it was observed that "in an action for
infringement, the plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that the use of the
defendant's mark is likely to deceive, but where the similarity between the
plaintiffs and the defendant mark is so close either visually, phonetically or
otherwise and the court reaches the conclusion that there is an imitation, no
further evidence is required to establish that the plaintiffs rights are
violated."

Para 20 - Lastly, in Dyechem's case (supra) it was observed in para 54 as
under:

"As to scope of a buyer being deceived, in a passing off action, the following
principles have to be borne in mind. Lord Romer LJ. has said in Payton & Co.
v. Snelling Lampard & Co., (1900) 17 RPC 48 that it is a misconception to
refer to the confusion that can be created upon an ignorant customer that the
courts ought to think of in these cases is the customer who knows the
distinguishing characteristics of the plaintiffs goods, those characteristics
which distinguish his goods from other goods in the market so far as relates
to general characteristics. If he does not know that, he is not a customer
whose views can properly be regarded by the Court. (See : the cases quoted in
N.S. Thread & Co. v. Chadwick & Bros., AIR 1948 Mad. 481 which was a passing
off action). In Schweppes' case, (1905) 22 RPC 601 (EL) Lord Halsbury said, if
a person is so careless that he does not look and does not treat the label
fairly but takes the bottle without sufficient consideration and without
reading what is written very plainly indeed up the face of the label, you
cannot say he is deceived."

These observations appear to us to be contrary to the decision of this Court
in Amritdhara's case (supra) where it was observed that the products will be
purchased by both villagers and townfolk, literate as well as illiterate and
the question has to be approached from the point of view of a man of average
intelligence and imperfect recollection. A trade may relate to goods largely
sold to illiterate or badly educated persons. The purchaser in India cannot be
equated with a purchaser of goods in England. While we agree that in trade
mark matters, it is necessary to go into the question of comparable strength,
the decision on merit in Dyechem's case (supra) does not, in our opinion, lay
down correct law and we hold accordingly".

5.12 As regards Schedule H drug is concerned, in paras 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26
and 27 the Court has made its observations. Paragraphs 26 and 27 read thus:

"Para" 26 - It was further submitted on behalf of the appellant that although
the possibility of confusion in a drug being sold across the counter may be
higher, the fact that a drug is sold under prescription or only to physicians
cannot by itself be considered a sufficient protection against confusion. The
physicians and pharmacists are trained people yet they are not infallible and
in medicines, there can be no provisions for mistake since even a possibility
of a mistake may prove to be fatal.

Para 27 - As far as present case is concerned, although both the drugs- are
sold under prescription but this tact alone is not sufficient to prevent
contusion which is otherwise likely to occur. In view of the varying
infrastructure for supervision of physicians and pharmacists of medical
profession in our country due to linguistic, urban, semi-urban and rural
divide across the country and with high degree of possibility of even
accidental negligence, strict measures to prevent any confusion arising from
similarity of marks among medicines are required to be taken."

5.13 The learned counsel has therefore submitted that this court is not bound
by the judgment of this court in Cadbury (India) Ltd. v. S.M. Dyechem Ltd.
(supra) as well as the judgment of the Supreme Court in the same case to the
extent the Apex Court has overruled in this behalf in Cadila 's case, (supra).

5.14 The learned counsel for the respondent has relied on the following
authorities in support of the contention that the application mark of the
petitioner is deceptively same to the existing registered trade mark of the
respondent.

(i) AIR 1963 SC 449 - "LAKSHMANDHARA" and "AMRITDHARA" deceptively similar.

(ii) AIR 1970 SC 46 - "ANDAL" to be deceptively similar to "AMBAL" (iii) AIR
1978 GUJ 216 - "SIMATUL" likely to cause confusion and deceptively similar to
"CIBATUL"

(iv) AIR 1979 CAL 133 - "FORMIS" could not be registered likely to create
confusion with the trade mark "CHARMIS"

(v) AIR 1989 DEL. 157 - "TREVICOL" was held to have phonetically deceptive
similarity to "FEVICOL"

(vi) AIR 1984 P&H 430 "BEPLEX" and "BELPLEX" are phonetically and visually
similar and likely to create confusion and deceptively similar.

(vii) AIR 1989 DEL. 44 - "CALMPOSE" phonetically and visually similar and
likely to cause confusion and deceptively similar to "CA1,.MPROSE".

(viii) Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. v. Dua Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd., AIR 1989
Delhi 44.

(ix) Allergan Inc v. Milment Oftho Industries, AIR 1998 Calcutta 261.

6\. Mr. Vyas, learned advocate for the respondent stated that Section 11 of
the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 provides prohibition of registration
of certain marks. A mark shall not be registered as trade mark provided the
use of which would be likely to deceive or cause confusion. Section 12 of the
Act also provides prohibition of registration of identical or deceptively
similar trade marks. However, Section 12(3) of the Act provides for an
exception to the Trade Mark Act. In view of the same, the learned counsel for
the respondent stated that therefore, the meaning of likelihood of confusion
and deception is an important aspect. For that purpose the learned counsel for
the respondent has relied on Halsbury's Laws of Bngland, 4lh Edition, Volume
48, para 163 on page 114-Para 163 reads that :-

"Establishing deception or confusion - To establish a likelihood of deception
or confusion in an action for passing off where there has been no direct
misrepresentation generally requires the presence of two factual elements ; (1
that a name, mark or other distinctive feature used by the plaintiff has
acquired a reputation among a relevant class of persons; and (2) that members
of that class will mistakenly infer from the defendant's use of a name, mark
or other feature which is the same or sufficiently similar that the
defendant's goods or business are from the same source or are connected. While
it is helpful to think of these two factual elements as two successive hurdles
which the plaintiff must surmount, consideration of these two aspects cannot
be completely separated from each other, as whether deception or confusion is
likely is ultimately a single question of fact.

In arriving at the conclusion of fact as to whether deception or confusion is
likely, the court will have regard to (a) the nature and extent of the
reputation relied upon, (b) the closeness or otherwise of the respective
fields of activity in which the plaintiff and the defendant carry on business,
(c) the similarity of the mark, name etc. used by the defendant to that of the
plaintiff, (d) the manner in which the defendant makes use of the name, mark
etc. complained of and collateral factors, and (e) the manner in which the
particular trade is carried on, the class of persons who it is alleged is
likely to be deceived and all other surrounding circumstances.

In assessing whether confusion or deception is likely, the court attaches
importance to the question as to whether the defendant can be shown to have
acted with a fraudulent intent, although a fraudulent intent is not a
necessary part of the cause of action.

The evidence which is admissible on the question of likelihood of deception or
confusion, and the way in which the court assesses it, including the
significance to be attached to the presence or absence of actual instances of
confusion, are discussed subsequently in relation to both passing off and
infringement of trade marks."

6.1 Learned counsel for the respondent has also invited my attention to
Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names, 13th Edition (2001) particularly
Chapter 8 which provides relative grounds for refusal of registration. In part
2-conflicts with earlier trade marks - the objections in outline - para 8.23
provides similarity of marks as a relevant factor. Para 8.23 reads thus :

"In cases where the marks are not identical then clearly a most important part
of the assessment of the likelihood of confusion must involve a consideration
of the degree of similarity between them."

6.2 Para 8.35 - provides for overall impression is to be considered which
reads as under:-

"The global appreciation of the likelihood of confusion must, as regards the
visual, aural or conceptual similarity of the marks in question, be based upon
the overall impression created by them, bearing in mind, in particular, their
distinctive and dominant components. The perception of marks in the mind of
the average consumer of the category of goods or services in question plays a
decisive role in the global appreciation of the likelihood of confusion. The
average consumer normally perceives a mark as a whole and does not proceed to
analyse its various details."

6.3 Para 8-59 provides confusion as to origin which reads as under :-

"The sort of confusion required to satisfy this provision is confusion as to
origin. It is not enough that on seeing the mark the subject of the
application, the earlier mark is "called to mind" if there is no possibility
of the customer being under any misapprehension as to the origin of the goods
or services. The mere association which the public might make between two
trade marks as a result of their analogous semantic content is not in itself a
sufficient ground for concluding that there is a likelihood of confusion
within the meaning of the provision."

6.4 He has also relied on Law of Trade Marks (Trade Marks Act, 1999) and
Passing Off, 5th Edition by P. Narayanan, at para 25.57 on page 539. The
relevant portion is reproduced hereunder :

"In Halsbury's Law of England, 4th Ed., Re-issue 1995, Vol. 48, para 184, the
subject has been dealt with as follows:

To establish a likelihood of deception or confusion in an action for passing
off where there has been no direct misrepresentation generally requires
presence of two factual elements -

(1) that a name, mark or other distinctive feature used by the plaintiff has
acquired a reputation among a relevant class or person; and (2) that members
of the class will mistakenly infer from the defendant's use of a name, mark or
other feature which is the same or sufficiently similar that the defendants
goods or business are from the same source of or connected. While it is
helpful to think of these two factual elements as two successive hurdles which
the plaintiff must surmount consideration of these two aspects, cannot be
completely separated from each other, as whether deception or confusion is
likely is ultimately a single question of fact.

In arriving at the conclusion of fact as to whether deception or confusion is
likely, the court will have regard to :

(a) the nature and extent of the reputation relied upon ;

(b) closeness or otherwise of the respective fields of activity in which the
plaintiff and the defendant carry on business;

(c) the similarity of the mark, name, etc. used by the defendant to that of
the plaintiff;

(d) the manner in which the defendants make use of the name, mark etc.
complained of and collateral factors, and

(e) the manner in which the particular trade is carried on, the class of
persons who it is alleged is likely to be deceived and all other surrounding
circumstances.

In assessing whether confusion or deception is likely, the court attaches
importance to the question whether the defendant can be shown to have acted
with a fraudulent, although a fraudulent intent is not a necessary part of the
cause of action, quoted in SBL Ltd, v. Himalaya Drug, 67 (1997) DLT803 at 810
(DB)."

7\. The learned counsel for the respondent stated that in view of the above
submission and the authorities cited, particularly, judgment in the case of
Cadila (supra) the respondent is able to prove that the trade mark of
respondent 'Zovirex' and another trade mark 'Zovirax' is likely to cause
confusion and deceptively similar to the applicant's proposed trade mark
namely, Trovirex'.

7.1 In my view the function of trade mark is to give an indication to the
purchaser or possible purchaser as to the manufacture of quality of the goods
to give an indication to his eye of the trade source from which the goods
come, or the trade hands through which they pass on their way to the market.
It tells the person who is going to buy, that the product presented to him is
either what is known to him under the similar name as coming from a source
with which he is familiar or that it is what he has heard of before as coming
from that source. It gives the purchaser a satisfactory assurance of the mark
and quality of the article he is buying, particular quality being not
discernible by the naked eye. It is on the faith of the mark being genuine and
representing a quality equal to that which he has previously found a similar
mark to indicate, that the purchaser makes his purchase.

8\. In my view the finding of the Registrar of Trade Marks that both the marks
have the highest degree of resemblance visually as well as phonetically and
the word Trovirex' is deceptively similar to the opponent's registered trade
marks 'Zovirax' and 'Zovirex' is correct. The word 'Trovirex' is so nearly
resembling to opponent's registered trade mark 'Zovirex' so as to cause
confusion amongst general public i.e. an average man with imperfect
recollection. In my view both the conditions specified under Sections 11 and
12(1) of the Act are satisfied and therefore the objection raised by the
opponent in his opposition should be considered as well founded and the
application of the applicant for registering the trade mark 'Trovirex' should
be rejected. This court therefore confirms the order and finding of the
Registrar in this behalf. In my view the opinion of the Registrar should not
be lightly disturbed because he has an expert knowledge in the matter.

9\. I have considered the submissions of Mr. R.R. Shah, learned advocate for
appellant. The proposed trade marks are of such a nature as to deceive the
public as to quality and origin of goods and therefore the said trade marks
must be refused registration by the Registrar in this behalf.

9.1 I have considered the submissions of the counsel for the respondent
Company Mr. Vyas which I set out in paragraph Nos. 5.1 to 5.9. In my view when
the Assistant Registrar of Trade Marks having held that use of 'TROVIREX'
(petitioner's application) would likely to deceive or cause confusion within
the meaning of Section 11(a) and having held that the petitioner's trade mark
TROVIREX' is identical with and deceptively similar to the trade mark of the
respondent 'ZOVIREX' and 'ZOVIRAX' has rightly not exercised the discretion in
favour of the petitioner by allowing the petitioner to have its trade mark
registered under Section 12(3) of the Trade Mark Act as Section 12(3) empowers
the Registrar to permit registration only under Section 12 of the Trade Marks
Act but the said discretionary power cannot be extended beyond Section 12
especially when the trade mark in the present case is not only found likely to
deceive or cause confusion under Section 12(a) but also found identical with
or deceptively similar to the respondent's trade mark under Section 11 of the
Act. In my view the Registrar of Trade Mark was right in not exercising the
discretionary power under Section 12(3) as the same requires as a condition
precedent of the honest concurrent use which is lacking in the present facts
of the case.

9.2 In my view, the respondent has successfully proved that the petitioner's
proposed mark is of such a nature as to deceive the public or cause confusion.
The respondent is able to establish that if the petitioner's trade mark
application is allowed then the said trade mark by virtue of:

    
    
    (a)      its identity with the registered trade mark (of respondent) and the similarity of the goods covered by registered trade mark of respondent, or
     
    
    (b)      its similarity to the registered trade mark and the identity or similarity of the goods covered by such registered trade mark of respondent. 
     
    
    there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public, which includes the likelihood of association with the earlier trade mark." 
     
    
    

10\. As pointed out by this court in the case of Simatul Chemical Industries
Pvt. Ltd. v. Cibatul Limited, 19 GLR 315 deception between two trade marks is
not only concerned with two persons but is concerned with the consumers and
interest of general public will have to be seen and therefore in any view of
the matter the registration asked for by the petitioner should not be
considered in this behalf. The learned counsel has relied on para 9 on 327
which reads thus :

"In our opinion, in view of the law on the subject which appears to be firmly
settled, it is futile to contend that the plaintiff Company cannot claim an
injunction restraining the defendant-Company from carrying on its business in
a name so deceptively similar as to cause confusion amongst those who may be
concerned in dealings with it. Just as a citizen is entitled to protection in
respect of his movable and immovable properties, he is also entitled to seek
protection in respect of his proprietary rights in goodwill. As the Court will
not permit theft of the property of a citizen, it will not permit the theft of
the goodwill earned by a citizen. There is also another dimension of the
matter. The consumers require to be protected if there is any danger of
confusion being caused in their mind and there is likelihood of their being
led into believing that the product in reality manufactured by X is
manufactured by Y or by someone connected with Y. When a consumer or customer
effects a purchase, he is entitled to be assured of the fact that he is
purchasing the very goods that he wants and the goods manufactured by a
concern in which he has confidence and not goods manufactured by another
concern whom the consumer or the customer does not know and that too by reason
of the fact that he is deceived into believing that the product is
manufactured by the former though it is in fact manufactured by the latter."

11\. In my view the probability of confusion and deception is more because the
trade marks are used in relation to the pharmaceutical products i.e. similar
goods. In my view in this case the deception and confusion of goods clearly
established.

12\. In view of the same I confirm the order of the Registrar and dismiss the
appeal filed by the appellant in this behalf with no order as to costs.

