

Delhi High Court

Indian Performing Right Society ... vs Debashis Patnaik And Ors. on 15
January, 2007

Equivalent citations: MIPR 2007 (1) 323, 2007 (34) PTC 201 Del

Author: G Mittal

Bench: G Mittal

JUDGMENT Gita Mittal, J.

Page 0678

1\. The plaintiff before this Court is a company limited by guarantee and
registered under the Companies Act, 1956. It is also registered as a Copyright
Society under Section 33 of the Copyright Act, 1957. On allegations that the
defendants have committed flagrant violation of the rights of the plaintiff in
the works assigned to him by numerous members, the plaintiff has sought the
following relief in the present suit:

a) An order for permanent injunction restraining the defendants, its agents,
employees and all others acting on its behalf from playing of music by live or
any other means, or by way of mechanical devices at the hotel operated by the
Defendants and /or channeling musical and or literary works of the plaintiff
or those of its sister copyright societies, by way of mechanical devices such
as Radio, Cable TV and /or RA. systems within the Defendants' premises without
obtaining a license from the plaintiff Society and without paying the
requisite royalties, thereby amounting to infringement of the plaintiff
Society's performing Rights in the same.

b) An order for damages to the tune of Rs. 20,01,000/- and a decree for the
same be passed in favor of the Plaintiff's Society and against the defendant.

c) An order for costs of the proceedings.

Page 0679

2\. The case set out in the plaint has been established in the affidavit by
way of evidence in this behalf. It is stated that the plaintiff is a non-
profit making body established on 23rd August, 1969 to monitor, protect and
enforce the rights, interest and privileges of its members which consists of
authors, composers and publishers of literary and musical works, as well as on
behalf of members of other sister societies who are owners of copyright in
their literary and musical works. The plaintiff has contended that it is, in
fact, the sole representative body as also the sole national copyright society
of authors, composers and publishers of literary and musical works. Its
members consist not only of persons from this country but also other
nationalities.

3\. After the amendment of the Copyright Act in 1994, the plaintiff-society
was re-registered as a copyright society under Section 33(3) of the amended
Act. The plaintiff-society is thus a registered copyright society under
Section 33(3) of the Copyright Act, 1957 and has received a certificate of
registration from the Registrar of Copyrights, Government of India in Form No.
IID dated 27th March, 1996 authorising it to carry on copyright business in
literary and musical works and/or in any words or any action intended to be
sung, spoken or performed with the music.

4\. The primary task of the plaintiff society is to collect royalties from
users of music and thereafter disburse the same to the owners of the copyright
in the music who inter alia it represents. The rates of royalties are decided
collectively by members of the plaintiff society.

5\. The plaintiff has stated that it is affiliated to around 194 world
societies which are included within the Federation known as CISAC, Paris
(established under the aegis of UNESCO and the WIPO Charter). By virtue of the
assignment deeds executed in its favor by its members, the plaintiff has
exclusive ownership of the public performance rights in respect of the
literary and musical work of its members which have been assigned to it. A
list of 32 such assignment deeds have been proved before this Court as
Exhibits P-4 to P-35. The plaintiff has fixed a tariff structure in respect of
communication by third parties to the public of the literary and musical work
of the members of the plaintiff-society in which copyright has been assigned
to the plaintiff. Such tariff fixation is effected in the annual general
meeting of the plaintiff-society, which is guided by the importance or the
value addition of music to the user organizations.

The plaintiff has proved before this Court the tariff card of The Indian
Performing Right Society Ltd. as Exhibit P-36 wherein the rates at which
license is given to different persons and authorities to perform or play music
have been set out. It has been stated that invoices are raised by the
plaintiff strictly in terms of the tariff which is applicable for the period
for which invoice has been raised.

6\. In the plaint, it has been pointed out that the defendant No. 1 Mr.
Debashis Patnaik is the Director of a hotel, 'The Crown' located at
Bhubaneswar in the State of Orissa. The defendant No. 2 is the hotel in
question which is a 57 room hotel and is stated to be a unit of defendant No.
3 namely Hotel Sukhamaya Pvt. Ltd. The plaintiff upon learning of the
defendant's communication to the public of literary and musical works without
due Page 0680 authorizations addressed a reminder cum invoice dated 3rd
January, 2003 to the defendant No. 2 calling upon the defendants to pay a sum
of Rs. 22,886/- towards the license fee, for having communicated such work to
the public for the period 1st December, 2002 to 30th November, 2003. This
reminder cum invoice has been proved on record as Exhibit P-37. Instead of
honouring the statutory rights of the plaintiff, the defendant No. 2
instituted a suit seeking a decree for declaration and permanent injunction
against the plaintiff before the court of the District Judge at Khurda,
Bhubaneswar in the State of Orissa seeking following prayer:

(i) An order declaring that the invoice issued by the Defendant(i.e, the
plaintiff herein) is null and void;

(ii) A perpetual injunction restraining the Defendant)i.e the plaintiff
herein) from claiming license fees;

7\. A copy of the plaint has been placed before this Court and marked as Mark
A. In this suit, Hotel The Crown as plaintiff had arrayed M/s Phonographic
Performance Ltd. as defendant No. 1; The Indian Performing Right Society Ltd.
as defendant No. 2; and the Registrar of Copyrights as the defendant No. 3.
The defendant has admitted receipt of the afore-noticed invoice Exhibit P-37
from the plaintiff in its plaint and alleged that it was not aware as to whom
the license fee is to be paid and hence the afore-noticed prayer.

8\. The present plaintiff contested the interim injunction application filed
by the defendant No. 2 in these proceedings which consequently came to be
dismissed by a judgment of the District Judge dated 4th February, 2006. It was
held by the court that the defendant herein has no prima facie case and
balance of convenience was in favor of the present plaintiff. The court also
held that if the plaintiff succeeded in the suit ultimately, he could claim
refund of the amount, if paid by him towards the license fee. The court in its
order had noticed that it was not the case of the plaintiff that he is not
playing music by way of mechanical devices such as radio, cable T.V. etc. and
that the defendant nos. 1 and 2 were authorized under the provisions of the
Copyright Act, 1957 to collect the license fee.

9\. The plaintiff has also proved before this Court a letter dated 15th
December, 2003 received from the defendant herein whereby the defendant No. 2
requested the plaintiff to supply the copy of a license agreement to explore
the possibility of an out of court settlement in C.S No. 14/2003 pending
before the District Judge, Khurda, Bhubaneswar. As the defendants were not
desisting from their illegal action, the plaintiff was constrained to file the
present suit on or about the 19th August, 2005. The plaint was signed and
verified by Mr. Hasan Kamal in his capacity as Chairman of the plaintiff. He
has deposed an affidavit proving before this Court, the resolution dated 21st
October, 2004 whereby he was authorized inter alia to sign and verify
pleadings and to institute the legal proceedings. The resolution has been
marked as Exhibit P-1.

10\. Summons were issued by this Court to the defendants on 29th August, 2005.
However, the defendants despite service by ordinary process as well as by
registered post opted not to appear or contest the present case before Page
0681 this Court. In these circumstances, by an order passed on 23rd January,
2006 the defendants were directed to be proceeded against ex parte and the
plaintiff was directed to lead ex parte evidence. Accordingly, the plaintiff
has filed affidavits by way of evidence of its witnesses in support of the
averments in the plaint.

11\. When the suit was taken up on 29th August, 2005, the court had also
granted an ad interim injunction in I.A. 6501/2005 which was in the following
terms:

...Accordingly, till the next date of hearing, the defendants, its agents,
employees and all others acting on its behalf are restrained from playing of
music by live of any other means, or by way of mechanical devices at the hotel
operated by the defendants and/or channeling musical and or literary works of
the plaintiff or those of its sister copyright societies, by way of mechanical
devices such as Radio, Cable TV and / or P.A systems within the defendants'
premises without paying a sum of Rs. 22,800/- and without obtaining a license
from the plaintiff society and without paying the requisite royalties to the
plaintiff in respect of the work.

12\. Upon the failure of the defendants to appear and contest the application,
the above injunction order was also confirmed by the court on the 23rd
January, 2006.

13\. The plaintiff has established that the defendant No. 2 continued with its
illegal activities of playing music at its hotel premises in violation of the
copyright possessed by the plaintiff therein without a license from the
plaintiff and without making payment of the license fee. Consequently, the
plaintiff raised a second invoice dated 17th of November, 2005 bearing invoice
No. 2005-2006/3320 purporting to be on account of the license fee which would
be due from the defendants for the period 1st of December, 2002 to 30th
November, 2006. By this invoice, the plaintiff demanded a sum of Rs.
1,41,788.57/- from the defendant which demand has been exhibited as Exhibit
P-40 before this Court. The plaintiff has contended that this amount is
inclusive of the amount of Rs. 22,886/- demanded earlier by Exhibit P-37.

14\. The further contention of the plaintiff is that the defendants have
chosen to ignore the court process despite issuance of the injunction order
and they continued to persist with their illegal activities. For this reason,
the plaintiff is entitled to recover the amount of Rs. 1,41,788.57/- as actual
compensatory damages from the defendants. On account of their continued
illegal action, the plaintiff has claimed that it is further entitled to the
sum of Rs. 18,58,211.42/- as punitive damages apart from the relief of
permanent prohibitory injunction which has been noticed hereinabove. The
statements made in the plaint and in the evidence on behalf of the plaintiff
stand uncontroverter.

15\. I find that there is no dispute to the averments in the plaint and the
plaintiff has conclusively established its copyright in the musical and
literary works which have been assigned in its favor by its members. Thus, it
would appear that no person would have any right to undertake a public
performance or communication to the public of such literary and musical work,
exclusive rights in respect of which vest with the plaintiff as established
from the assignment deeds proved as Exhibit P-4 to P-35 before this Court.

Page 0682

16\. The defendant No. 2 had filed C.S No. 14/2003 in the court of the
district Judge, Khurda at Bhubaneswar wherein he has admitted that such
musical works are being played at the hotel and that it was unaware as to who
was the real licensee to collect the fees under the statutory provisions. This
fact was even noticed by the District Judge in the judgment dated 4th
February, 2006 dismissing the injunction application filed by the defendant
No. 2.

17\. In the instant case, a further submission has been made that the
defendants knowingly have opted not to appear before this Court. By this
refusal, the defendants have adequately established their defiance and have
refused to accede to the summons issued by the court. Placing reliance on the
pronouncement of the Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court
reported at Bhagwandas Ramji Lal v. Watkins Mayer and Co., Jalandhar and Ors.,
it has been urged by Mr. Praveen Anand, learned Counsel for the plaintiff that
such refusal amounts to a refusal to divulge details relating to the wrongful
acts of the defendants before this Court and that in the face of such defiance
and absence of details relating to the defendants' acts, this Court would be
justified in raising all presumptions against the defendants.

18\. Perusal of this judgment shows that it related to passing of an action
wherein the court held that the plaintiffs were entitled to recoup the loss
that they incurred as a direct and natural consequence of the defendants'
wrongful action. In such a case, if the defendants refuse to produce their
books of account showing the quantity of goods manufactured or sold by them
during the period of infringement and profits earned thereon, the court would
be justified in raising every presumption against them. It is their duty to
produce their account books as the issue is within their special and exclusive
knowledge.

19\. The plaintiff has established before this Court that the defendants have
knowledge of the illegality in their action. The plaintiff has also asserted
that the defendants' illegal activities would have a cascading effect. The
assignment of the copyright is effected in the favor of the plaintiff for the
reason that the original owners of the copyrights who are lyricists, producers
of music recording companies etc. are unable to enforce their rights or to
effect recoveries. There can be no manner of doubt that the action of the
defendants is blatant, deliberate and mala fide. Despite dismissal of the
injunction application and the observations made by the District Judge, the
defendants are persisting with their illegal action and have not made payment
of the license fee demanded by the plaintiff. The plaintiff has consequently
prayed for injunction and damages.

20\. Apart from the factual matrix noticed above, I find that the plaintiff
has laid a claim of compensatory and punitive damages. Several pronouncements
have been cited at the Bar in support of the suit prayers. It therefore
becomes necessary to examine the principles which govern award of such
damages.

21\. Damages have been traditionally defined as 'pecuniary compensation,
obtainable by success in an action, for a wrong which is either a tort or a
Page 0683 breach of contract' (Re: Broome v. Cassel & Co. 1972 AC 1027). Thus
the traditional concept of damages is to compensate a claimant for loss and
damage and can also be referred to as compensatory damages which are awarded
to compensate a plaintiff for damages which he has suffered or is expected to
suffer and to replace something that the plaintiff has lost or is expected to
lose because of the wrongful act of the defendant. The primary purpose of the
damages is to restore those losses to the plaintiff. However as tort
litigation has evolved, we find that the concept of damages is not limited to
compensation for loss and damages alone. Three kinds of damages are being
awarded by courts which include nominal damages, exemplary damages and
compensatory damages.

22\. Nominal damages are usually awarded where a legal right of the plaintiff
is found to be infringed and there is, however, no proof of actual loss. There
may be another situation where nominal damages may be awarded which is a case
where loss is shown, but there is no evidence as to its exact quantum.

The purpose of the award of nominal damages thus is vindicatory i.e. to mark
the existence of the right in question as well as the fact of violation of
such right of the plaintiff by the wrong doer who is the defendant.

Thus a notional amount may be awarded as such damages so as to vindicate the
stand of the plaintiff and the claim lodged by him.

23\. The next kind of damages are in the nature of compensatory damages which
are awarded to compensate a plaintiff for the loss suffered by him and to put
him in the same position as if the tort has not been committed. Such a loss
may be a pecuniary loss or an intangible loss which would be non-pecuniary.
The intangible loss would include mental and emotional distress apart from
other incidents where the award of damages is intended to compensate for such
distress.

24\. So far as damages due to infringement of trademark are concerned, the
traditional English approach has been to assess the same according to the
extent of the plaintiff's or the claimant's loss. The established rule was
that in the event of no loss being shown or no evidence with regard to the
damages being led, no damages could be awarded or recovered.

25\. In the United States the approach has been to assess damages for
trademark infringement according to the extent of the plaintiff's loss and
thereby, compensatory damages must be equal to the loss suffered by the
individual victim. [Ref: Simon Greenleaf, A Treatise On The Law of Evidence
see 253 at 242-43 (2d ed.1972)].

26\. In India in a case reported at 481 IC 450 at p. 465 Lakpat Rai v. Sri
Krishna Das, the Court held that where there is no evidence to calculate
actual damages, it is not worthwhile to give damages other than nominal
damages.

In AIR 1932 Rangoon 56 entitled Sally Mahomed Sulaiman v. Neogi & Co., the
Court has held that the best evidence of such loss and damage is the loss of
trade that the plaintiff has suffered during the period in which the defendant
is importing the offending goods.

Page 0684 Thus so far as awarding compensatory damages is concerned, there has
to be evidence of the plaintiff's loss.

It is also necessary to bear in mind that the basis of calculation of damages
is entirely different from an account of profits of the defendant and the two
remedies stand on the alternative footings.

27\. The third kind of damages which are being considered more and more while
considering cases of trademark infringement and passing of actions relates to
award of exemplary damages, which are commonly known as punitive damages. Such
damages can commonly be given in addition to compensatory damages. The
expression 'punitive' masks a variety of specific purposes that such damages
are intended to actually serve apart from the punishing element and the
deterrent cause of award of such damages. Such damages have various other
useful purposes which include, inter alia, retribution, deterrence,
compensation, education and law enforcement. Some authors have suggested that
such damages have the effect of deterring not only the defendant from
repeating the offence, but also deter others from committing the same;
preserving peace; inducing private law enforcement; compensating victims for
otherwise uncompensable loss and the payments of the plaintiff's attorney's
fees.

28\. It would be topical and instructive to examine the principles laid down
by the Supreme Court of the United States of America in a decision rendered on
May 20, 1996 in BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore reported in 517 US 559. In
this case the following guide posts were given as to the method of calculation
of punitive damages:

(i) Reprehensibility: The Supreme Court held that 'perhaps the most important
indicium of the reasonableness of a punitive damage award is a degree of
reprehensibility of the defendant's conduct.' In the case in hand, the Court
noted that reprehensibility included economic torts which were present in the
BMW case. It is also noted that conduct involving a substantial risk of bodily
injury would be deemed more serious and more deserving of a sanction than pure
economic torts.

(ii) Rationality in the award of damages: While emphasising that the primary
goal in awarding punitive damages is to punish present conduct with the
further objective of deterring future egregious conduct, the court, however,
drew a note of caution emphasising that the punitive damages must rationally
relate to the award of compensatory damages.

(iii) Imperative Criminal Penalty - the third guide post as indicated in the
BMW case requires the Court to compare 'the punitive damages award' and the
civil or criminal penalties that could be imposed for comparable misconduct.

29\. In a later case decided on 7th April, 2003 entitled State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co. v. Campbell Et. Al reported at 538 U.S. 408, 2003,
the Supreme Court provided a further useful guideline while considering
rationality of the punitive damages award, where it stated that single digit
multipliers are more likely to comport with due process, while still achieving
the state goals of deterrence and detribution, than awards in the range of
500:1 or in this case 145:1.

Page 0685 In the State Farm case, the Supreme Court further emphasised that
the application of punitive damages must be limited to harm related to the
plaintiff.

30\. In the United Kingdom, three common law categories have been identified
where exemplary damages can be imposed.

One of such categories is where the defendant's conduct is calculated to make
profits for himself which may exceed compensation payable to the plaintiff.
Thus exemplary damages are imposed to prevent unjust enrichment (Reference -
1964 AC 1129 at 1226). The criterion which are utilised for calculation of
punitive damages include conduct of the defendant, relevance of the
compensation amount, relevance of criminal liability, means of the parties and
moderation of the award. (Mc Gregor on Damages, 16th Edition at page nos.
461-470 ).

31\. From the consideration of the foregoing, it would appear that law as
applied and as has been evolved in the United States of America and United
Kingdom, suggest that punitive damages would not be possible in isolation of
compensatory damages. Where no compensatory damages are awarded, the
implication would appear to be that the plaintiff has suffered no compensable
injury. Receipt of exemplary damages, therefore, would be in the nature of a
'windfall award', which is imposed to serve a public law function.

32\. In Toler v. Cassinelli 129 W.Va 591 : 41 S.E. 2d 672 (1946), it was held
that 'finding of compensatory damages by a jury is an indispensable predicate
to a finding of exemplary or punitive damages, and damages awarded by way of
punishment must bear a reasonable proportion to compensatory damages so
found.'

33\. A case in which the question as to whether exemplary damages can be given
without award of any compensatory damages, fell for consideration before the
Supreme Court in Common Cause v. UOI. Though the question was not directly
answered, however, the Court held that in public law, it can be done. The
Court also stated that in the case of punitive damages, it should be moderate
and also keep in mind the means of the parties.

34\. There have been several cases where the Court had awarded punitive
damages in addition to compensatory damages. In this behalf, in 2005 (30) PTC
3 (Del), Time Incorporated v. Lokesh Srivastava and Anr., apart from
compensatory damages of Rs. 5 lakhs, the Court also awarded punitive damages,
emphasising that the award of compensatory damages to a plaintiff is aimed at
compensating the plaintiff for the loss suffered by him, whereas the punitive
damages are aimed at deterring a wrong doer and the like minded from indulging
in such unlawful activities. Whenever an action has criminal propensity also,
the punitive damages are clearly called for so that the tendency to violate
the laws and infringe the rights of others with a view to make money is
curbed. The punitive damages are founded on the philosophy of corrective
justice and as such, in appropriate cases, these must be awarded to give a
signal to the wrong doers that law does not take a breach merely as a matter
between rival parties but feels concerned about those also who are not a party
to the lis but suffered on account of the breach. The Court Page 0686
emphasised the distinction between compensatory damages and punitive damages
which are noticed above and held thus:

7\. ...Whenever an action has criminal propensity also the punitive damages
are clearly called for so that the tendency to violate the laws and infringe
the rights of others with a view to make money is curbed. The punitive damages
are founded on the philosophy of corrective justice and, as such, in
appropriate cases these must be awarded to give a signal to the wrong-doers
that law does not take a breach merely as a matter between rival parties but
feels concerned about those also who are not party to the lis but suffer on
account of the breach. In the case in hand itself, it is not only the
plaintiff, who has suffered on account of the infringement of its trademark
and Magazine design but a large number of readers of the defendants' Magazine
'TIME ASIA SANSKARAN' also have suffered by purchasing the defendants'
Magazines under an impression that the same are from the reputed publishing
house of the plaintiff company.

8\. This Court has no hesitation in saying that the time has come when the
Courts dealing actions for infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents
etc. should not only grant compensatory damages but award punitive damages
also with a view to discourage and dishearten law breakers who indulge in
violations with impunity out of lust for money so that they realize that in
case they are caught, they would be liable not only to reimburse the aggrieved
party but would be liable to pay punitive damages also, which may spell
financial disaster for them. In Mathias v. Accor Economi Lodging, Inc. 347
F.3d 672 (7th Cir. 2003) the factors underlying the grant of punitive damages
were discussed and it was observed that one function of punitive damages is to
relieve the pressure on an overloaded system of criminal justice by providing
a civil alternative to criminal prosecution of minor crimes. It was further
observed that the award of punitive damages serves the additional purpose of
limiting the defendant's ability to profit from its fraud by escaping
detection and prosecution. If a tortfeasor is caught only half the time he
commits torts, then when he is caught he should be punished twice as heavily
in order to make up for the reason that it is very difficult for a plaintiff
to give proof of actual damages suffered by him as the defendants who indulge
in such activities never maintain proper accounts of their transactions who
they know that the same are objectionable and unlawful. In the present case,
the claim of punitive damages is of Rs. 5 lacs only which can be safely
awarded. Had it been higher even this Court would not have hesitated in
awarding the same. The Court is of the view that the punitive damages should
be really punitive and not flee bite and quantum thereof should depend upon
the flagrancy of infringement.

In this case, the Court thus emphasised the intent of exemplary damages to
punish the wrong doer and also emphasised the deterrent effect of the damages.

35\. Another aspect of damages in cases relating to infringement of trademark
and passing off action arose for consideration before this Court in the
judgment Page 0687 reported at Hero Honda Motors Ltd. v. Shree Assuramjit
Scooters, wherein Court noticed that the plaintiff had claimed token damages
and compensation of Rs. 5 lacs as it was not possible to determine the exact
nature of damages at the time of filing of the suit. The punitive damages were
not specifically claimed. Defendant had further opted to not appear before the
Court and had stayed away from the proceedings. Consequently, it was
successfully able to prevent the Court from having before it any evidence
which would have been available, had its accounts been produced before the
Court. In this case, the Court held that the plaintiff could not be prejudiced
by the act of the defendant in staying away from the court proceedings. In
this background the Court held that such defendant must suffer the
consequences of damages, which would be awarded as stated and set out by the
plaintiff. However, the Court issued a note of caution that the plaintiff
could not be granted any irrational figure which may be claimed but while
making the award of damages, it would be necessary to keep in mind the nature
of deception alleged by the plaintiff which not only causes direct loss to the
plaintiff, but also effects the reputation of the plaintiff by selling sub-
standard goods and services in the market where the public may be deceived in
buying the goods thinking the same to be that of the plaintiff. There is a
larger public interest and purpose involved to discourage such parties from
indulging in such acts of infringement and deception and , thus, even if the
same has a punitive element, it must be granted. Placing reliance on the
principles laid down in the Time Incorporated case (supra), it was further
stated that punitive damages should be really punitive and should not merely
flee bite. The quantum thereof should depend upon the flagrancy of the
infringement. The courts also recognize the effort which the plaintiff has to
put in contesting the offending traders in the market who continue with their
illegal conduct with impunity and without any remorse. Thereby the plaintiff
is compelled to utilize energy, funds and resources for contesting such
litigation which could have been otherwise utilized in business promotion and
expansion activities.

36\. In CS (OS) No. 1385/2005 entitled The Heels v. V.K. Abrol and Anr., the
plaintiff had claimed damages for a sum of Rs. 21 lacs on grounds of
infringement of trade mark by the defendant. The defendant opted to stay away
from the proceedings. In these circumstances, the Court noticed thus:

11\. This court has taken a view that where a defendant deliberately stays
away from the proceedings with the result that an enquiry into the accounts of
the defendant for determination of damages cannot take place, the plaintiff
cannot be deprived of the claim for damages as that would amount to a premium
on the conduct of such defendant. The result would be that parties who appear
before the court and contest the matter would be liable to damages while the
parties who choose to stay away from the court after having infringed the
right of the plaintiff, would go scotfree. This position cannot be acceptable.

12\. No doubt it is not possible to give an exact figure of damages on the
basis of actual loss, but certain token amounts on the basis of the sales Page
0688 of the plaintiff can certainly be made. The plaintiff is unnecessarily
dragged into litigation and the defendants must bear consequences thereof. In
fact in such a case both compensatory and punitive damages ought to be granted
apart from the costs incurred by the plaintiff on such litigation. In view of
the given sales figure of the plaintiff, I consider it appropriate to grant a
decree of damages in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendants for a
sum of Rs 3 lakh apart from costs of the suit.

Thus the Court has awarded damages in favor of the plaintiff based on the
sales of the plaintiff.

37\. In a judgment of this Court dated 24th April, 2006, rendered in CS(OS)
1333/2005 entitled Intel Corporation v. Dina Karan Nayar, again the defendant
had failed to appear. The Court decreed the suit for permanent injunction and
delivery up of the offending material placing reliance on the pronouncements
on the Hero Honda Case and Time Incorporated case (supra), the Court awarded
damages of Rs. 3 lacs as opposed to the amount of Rs. 20 lacs which had been
prayed for by the plaintiff. In this case, the Court had noticed yet another
reason for awarding punitive damages in this behalf in the Time Incorporated
case (supra) the Court held thus:

6\. The plaintiff has claimed a decree of Rs. 12.5 lacs on account of damages
suffered by the plaintiff or an order of rendition of accounts of the profits
illegally earned by the defendants by use of the impugned trademark. In view
of the fact that the defendants have not chosen to turn up and face these
proceedings, this Court is of the considered view that an order of rendition
of accounts is fully warranted and called for. Damages in the sum of Rs. 12.5
lacs as claimed cannot be awarded on account of the fact that the plaintiff
has not succeeded in proving on record as to how and on what basis these
damages have been calculated. Damages of Rs. 5 lacs are claimed on account of
loss of reputation of the plaintiff. These can be awarded inasmuch as the
readers who might have read the defendants' 'TIME ASIA SANSKARAN' must have
formed a very poor opinion about the plaintiff's Magazine and, as such, the
reputation and goodwill of the plaintiff has suffered.

7\. Coming to the claim of Rs. 5 lakh as punitive and exemplary damages for
the flagrant infringement of the plaintiff's trademark, this Court is of the
considered view that a distinction has to be drawn between compensatory
damages and punitive damages. The award of compensatory damages to a plaintiff
is aimed at compensating him for the loss suffered by him whereas punitive
damages are aimed at deterring a wrong doer and the like minded from indulging
in such unlawful activities. Whenever an action has criminal propensity also
the punitive damages are clearly called for so that the tendency to violate
the laws and infringe the rights of others with a view to make money is
curbed. The punitive damages are founded on the philosophy of corrective
justice and, as such, in appropriate cases these must be awarded to give a
signal to the wrong-doers that law does not take a breach merely as a matter
between rival parties but feels concerned about those also who are not party
to the lis but suffer on account of the breach. In the case Page 0689 in hand
itself, it is not only the plaintiff, who has suffered on account of the
infringement of its trademark and Magazine design but a large number of
readers of the defendants' Magazine 'TIME ASIA SANSKARAN' also have suffered
by purchasing the defendants' Magazines under an impression that the same are
from the reputed publishing house of the plaintiff company.

8\. This Court has no hesitation in saying that the time has come when the
Courts dealing actions for infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents
etc. should not only grant compensatory damages but award punitive damages
also with a view to discourage and dishearten law breakers who indulge in
violations with impunity out of lust for money so that they realize that in
case they are caught, they would be liable not only to reimburse the aggrieved
party but would be liable to pay punitive damages also, which may spell
financial disaster for them. In Mathias v. Accor Economi Lodging, Inc. 347
F.3d 672 (7th Cir. 2003) the factors underlying the grant of punitive damages
were discussed and it was observed that one function of punitive damages is to
relieve the pressure on an overloaded system of criminal justice by providing
a civil alternative to criminal prosecution of minor crimes. It was further
observed that the award of punitive damages serves the additional purpose of
limiting the defendant's ability to profit from its fraud by escaping
detection and prosecution. If a tortfeasor is caught only half the time he
commits torts, then when he is caught he should be punished twice as heavily
in order to make up for the reason that it is very difficult for a plaintiff
to give proof of actual damages suffered by him as the defendants who indulge
in such activities never maintain proper accounts of their transactions who
they know that the same are objectionable and unlawful. In the present case,
the claim of punitive damages is of Rs. 5 lacs only which can be safely
awarded. Had it been higher even this Court would not have hesitated in
awarding the same. The Court is of the view that the punitive damages should
be really punitive and not flee bite and quantum thereof should depend upon
the flagrancy of infringement.

38\. It would be also instructive to consider the principles on which damages
was awarded in the judgment dated 8th May, 2006 rendered in CS(OS) 1528/2003
entitled Hindustan Pencils Ltd. v. Aparna Enamel Industries reported at 2006
(131) DLT 65. In this case, the plaintiff had filed a suit for permanent
injunction as well as damages against the defendant on allegations of
infringement of its trade mark and copyright as well as deceptive passing off
by the defendant in respect of the plaintiff's trademarks `Nataraj' and
`Apsara'. Defendants were only seeking to make a difference by spelling
`Nataraj' as spelt by the plaintiff, as `Natraj'. The Court on consideration
of the matter passed a decree of permanent injunction offending the trademarks
`Natraj' and `Apsara'.

So far as damages are concerned, the defendant had stayed away from the
judicial proceedings and consequently enquiry into the accounts of the Page
0690 defendant for determination of damages could not take place. The Court
held that if this was to flow as a result of the defendants remaining ex-
parte, it would amount to "a premium on the conduct of such defendant". The
observation of the Court on the aspect of damages is pertinent and reads thus:

11\. The last aspect to be considered is the question of damages. This Court
has already taken a view in Hero Honda Motors Ltd. v. Shree Assuramji
Scooters, , that even if the defendant stays away from the judicial
proceedings, the plaintiff cannot be deprived of the claim for damages. This
is so since the result of the defendant staying away from the judicial
proceedings is that any inquiry into the accounts of the defendant for
determination of damages cannot take place and a view to the contrary would
amount to a premium on the conduct of such defendant. The result would be that
parties who appear before the Court and contest the matter would be liable to
damages while parties who choose to stay away from the Court after having
infringed the right of the plaintiff would go scot-free. This position cannot
be acceptable. No doubt it is not possible to give an exact figure of damages
on the basis of actual loss, but certain token amounts on the basis of sales
of the plaintiff can certainly be assessed. The plaintiff has unnecessarily
been dragged into litigation and the defendant must bear the consequences
thereof. I am of the considered view that taking into consideration the facts
and circumstances of the case, the plaintiff is also entitled for a decree of
damages against the defendants for a sum of Rs. 1 lakh apart from the cots of
the suit. Decree sheet be drawn up accordingly.

In this case, the plaintiff had proved sales for the year 2000-01 as Rs. 95
crores and its expenses on advertisement to be in the range of Rs. 3 crores.

The defendants had herein also failed to enter into appearance in this case.

The Court granted a decree of permanent injunction and also awarded damages of
Rs. 1 lakh. In this case also the Court had stated that it was not possible to
give an exact figure of damages on the basis of actual loss but certain token
amounts on the basis of sales of the plaintiff could be assessed.

39\. Again in CS (OS) No. 2039/2003 entitled Mahendra & Mahendra Ltd. v.
Ashwani Kumar, the plaintiff sought a permanent injunction restraining
infringement of the plaintiff's copyright and trademark "Mahindra" including
Mahendra and Mahendra coloured Wheel logo. The plaintiff had indicated that it
had suffered tremendous losses which were well over Rs. 20 lacs. However, no
evidence had been led by the plaintiff to indicate the amount of the loss or
the extent of actual damages resulting to it. The Court was of the view that
it would be sufficient if damages to the extent of Rs. 1 lakh were awarded in
favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant.

40\. From the above discussion, it is evident that undoubtedly, assessment of
damages has to be based on cogent evidence which is placed on record. The
burden of proving damages as well as the facts which caused the damages is
upon the plaintiff who has to adduce the best evidence in support of his case.
The onus on the plaintiff to prove damages is not rendered lighter because the
defendant does not appear and is ex parte or does not contest Page 0691 the
case. So far as facts which are relevant are concerned, Section 12 of the
Indian Evidence Act set out that any fact which enables the court to determine
the amount of damages which ought to be awarded is relevant.

The most material evidence which would enable a court to arrive at a fair
assessment of the gains which have accrued to a defendant by the acts
complained of, would be a true and fair rendition of accounts by a defendant
who is engaged in the acts of infringement. However, a defendant who is
indulging in such illegal activity would obviously not maintain correct
accounts and in any case would not place the material in respect thereof
before the court. Therefore, it is left to the court to ascertain the probable
level of sales of the defendant by other modes.

41\. In an action for infringement of trademark, the profits made by the
defendant also cannot always be the true criterion of the damages awardable to
the plaintiff as the defendant's gain may not always be proportionate to the
plaintiff's loss. However, it is trite that the plaintiff's loss or the
defendant's gain will not be assumed in the absence of proof. The plaintiff is
required to prove some distinct damage from the infringement of his trademark
by defendant. The effect of the infringing acts of the defendant may be
evidenced by the diminishing quantum of goods sold by the plaintiff for the
reason that the defendant took away the plaintiff's customers. The defendant
may also impact the plaintiff's customers. The defendant may also impact the
plaintiff's business by causing him to sell its products at a lower price. In
either event, there would be a reduction in either the total volume of the
plaintiff's business or lowering in the percentage increase of business as
compared to the previous years. Thus the measure of damage suffered by the
plaintiff is to be found by an assessment of the profits the plaintiff would
have made if the offending article had not been introduced by the defendant in
the market or if the defendant had not undertaken the illegal activities
complained of by the plaintiff. These facts have to be proved by the evidence
on record either relating to the business of the defendants or which could be
assessed from a decline in the business of the plaintiff on account of the
activities of the defendant which could be gathered from the figures of sales
over the period of time during which the defendant has continued with the
activities complained of and an assertion of such loss by the plaintiff in its
evidence.

42\. Reference can usefully be made to the method for computation and award of
damages in another pronouncement of this Court in entitled Microsoft
Corporation v. Yogesh Popat and Anr. In a suit by the plaintiff praying for a
decree of prohibitory injunction, an order for delivery up to the plaintiff of
the counterfeit/unlicensed copies of the plaintiff's software and other
infringing material and for an order for rendition of accounts of profits
illegally earned by the defendant by reasons of infringement of plaintiff's
copyright including compensatory damages and a decree in the sum of the amount
so ascertained, the Court has to consider the evidence led by the plaintiff.
The defendant had opted to remain ex-parte and did not contest the suit. The
Court noticed that the evidence on record established hard disc piracy by the
defendants who were pirating software of the plaintiff and Page 0692 loading
the same on the hard disc of computers sold by them without permission from
the plaintiffs. Based on the popularity of the computer software of the
plaintiff, the Court adopted an assumptive process whereby it based financial
loss to the plaintiff on assumption of sale of 100 computers each year, which
were loaded with pirated software. On such assumption, the Court arrived at a
computation of loss of profits in the sum of Rs. 19.75 lacs. In this
background, the Court decreed the suit in terms of the prayers in the plaint
and awarded compensation/damages against the defendants in the sum of Rs.
19.75 lacs with interest @ 9% per annum from the date of decree till payment.

43\. From the principles laid down in the afore-noticed judicial
pronouncements, it is apparent that the punitive damages would necessarily
follow an award of compensatory damages in favor of the plaintiff. The
punitive damages also have to bear a fair ratio to the compensatory damages
awarded to the plaintiff.

44\. In the light of the foregoing discussion, I have no manner of doubt that
the defendants have no right whatsoever of playing such music by any means
within their premises, copyright whereof stands assigned to the plaintiff
without obtaining the license from the plaintiff and without paying the
requisite royalties thereby. The defendants have not been licensed by the
plaintiff to do so.

45\. The defendants have deliberately, knowingly and mala fide have admittedly
played such music and thereby breached the copyrights of the plaintiff. They
have persisted with their illegal actions despite objections of the plaintiff,
and have effected public performances of the music which they could not do so
without obtaining the license from the plaintiff and without paying the
requisite royalties. The defendants deserve to be discouraged from their
illegal actions by imposition of most stringent terms from playing music by
any means at their premises in which the copyright vests with the plaintiff.
Undoubtedly, the plaintiff is entitled to the amount of license fee for such
action from the defendants.

46\. The plaintiff has pointed out that the license fee due to it for the
period from 1st December, 2002 to 30th November, 2006 is Rs. 1,41,788.57/-.
There is no contest to the assertions of the plaintiff. The defendant has no
right whatsoever for playing the music without obtaining the license from the
plaintiff and without paying the royalties to the plaintiff.

47\. The matter however does not rest here. As the defendants are persisting
in their illegal and mala fide conduct and the plaintiff would be entitled to
the injunction prayed for and the license fee for the period it continues to
so act without license from the plaintiff and without payment of royalties.
Apart from that, the defendant has with malafide intent caused the plaintiff
to persist with the present suit.

48\. The claim of the plaintiff that it is entitled to a sum of Rs.
18,58,211.42/- as punitive damages has gone unrebutted. However, in the light
of the legal principles which guide award of punitive damages noticed above,
award of the claimed amount would be grossly disproportionate to the claim of
Page 0693 compensatory damages and highly excessive. An award of Rs.
3,00,000.00/- as punitive damages to the plaintiff would be fair and
justified. The same is in the proximity of double the amount of compensatory
damages and is being awarded having regard to the mandate in several judicial
pronouncements that damages should not merely flee bite the defendant.

In these circumstances, I have no hesitation in decreeing the claim of the
plaintiff and hereby pass a decree in favor of the plaintiff and against the
defendants for the sum of Rs. 1,41,788.57/- towards the actual and
compensatory damages suffered by the plaintiff and the sum of Rs.
3,00,000.00/- as punitive damages. The plaintiff shall be entitled to interest
at the rate of 10% per annum on these amounts from the date of decree till
payment.

49\. I hereby also pass decree of permanent prohibitory injunction restraining
the defendants, its agents, employees and all others acting on its behalf from
playing of music by live or any other means, or by way of mechanical devices
at the hotel operated by the Defendants and /or channeling musical and/or
literary works of the plaintiff or those of its sister copyright societies, by
way of mechanical devices such as Radio, Cable TV and /or RA. systems within
the defendants' premises without obtaining a license from the plaintiff
Society and without paying the requisite royalties, thereby amounting to
infringement of the plaintiff society's copyrights in the same.

50\. The plaintiff would be entitled to cost of proceedings which are
quantified at Rs. 50,000/-.

51\. The suit is accordingly decreed in the above terms.

