

Bombay High Court

Wyeth Holdings Corporation And ... vs Burnet Pharmaceuticals (Pvt.) ... on 25
January, 2008

Equivalent citations: AIR 2008 Bom 100, 2008 (2) BomCR 739, 2008 (110) Bom L R
409, MIPR 2008 (1) 275, 2008 (36) PTC 478 Bom

Author: D Chandrachud

Bench: D Chandrachud

JUDGMENT D.Y. Chandrachud, J.

Page 0414

1\. This order will govern the Plaintiffs' Motion for interlocutory relief in
an action for passing off and infringement.

2\. On 6th September 1946, an application was made for the registration of the
trade mark "FOLVITE" in class5 in respect of "a nutritional factor of Vitamin
B Complex in the treatment and prevention of vitamin deficiencies and
anemias". The mark was advertised in the Trade Marks Journal and came to be
registered in class5 on 28th April 1949. The registration of the mark
continues to be valid and to subsist. The First Plaintiff entered into a
Registered User Agreement on 30th April 1986 with Cyanamid India Limited. The
name of Cyanamid India Limited was changed to Wyeth Lederle Limited Page 0415
with effect from 1st January 1998. It is undisputed that the Plaintiffs are
entitled to use and adopt the mark FOLVITE in a proprietary character.

3\. The Defendant initially adopted the mark FOLCACID for its products.
Subsequently, the mark was changed to FOLV. Permission to do so was granted by
the Drugs Control Authorities on 19th December 2000. In May 2000, the
Defendant had filed an application for the registration of the mark FOLV in
respect of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations falling in class5. The
Defendant stated that the mark was proposed to be used. Upon the mark being
advertised, the Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the registration of the
mark. On 15th December 2006, an order was passed by the Registrar of Trade
Marks refusing registration to the trade mark FOLV of the Defendant. The
principles grounds which weighed to the Registrar were thus:

(i) The Defendant's mark FOLV bears similarity to the earlier trade mark
FOLVITE of the Plaintiffs and having regard to the similarity of the goods
involved, there was a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public,
particularly since it was established that the mark of the Plaintiffs had
acquired a reputation in the Indian Market;

(ii) Though the Defendant may be right in contending that the prefix FOL was
common to the trade, the mere addition of the common alphabet 'V' which
denotes 'Vitamin' cannot lend sufficient distinction to the mark of the
Defendant from the mark of the Plaintiffs considered as a whole. There was an
apparent danger of the public being confused and the use of the mark FOLV
would be detrimental to the distinctive character or repute of the mark of the
Plaintiffs;

(iii) The mark FOLV adopted by the Defendant was visually and phonetically
similar to the trade mark FOLVITE of the Plaintiffs; (iv) As a result of a
long and extensive user, the mark of the Plaintiffs has acquired a tremendous
reputation in the Indian Market and the user of a deceptively similar mark by
the Defendant was likely to cause confusion in the mind of the public and the
trade.

4\. The Defendant has filed an appeal against the order passed by the
Registrar refusing registration to the Intellectual Property Appellate Board.
The appeal is pending.

5\. The suit out of which these proceedings arise has been instituted for
infringement and passing off.

6\. In support of the application for injunction, it has been urged on behalf
of the Plaintiffs that:

(i) The goods of the Plaintiffs and the Defendant are identical and the mark
of the Defendant is visually and phonetically similar to the mark of the
Plaintiffs. Comparing the mark as a whole, it is evident that the Defendant
has adopted a mark which is deceptively similar to the mark of the Plaintiffs
which consists of an invented word;

(ii) There is a serious likelihood of confusion since both the marks are used
for the same ailment, for the same purpose, and by the same type of customers
or patients and the mark of the Defendant is deceptively similar;

Page 0416

(iv) The adoption of the mark FOLV by the Defendant is not honest and there is
neither any explanation nor any traverse on affidavit of the reasons which led
the Defendant to change over from the mark FOLCACID to FOLV;

(v) There is no delay or acquiescence on the part of the Plaintiffs in filing
the suit and the conduct of the Plaintiffs in opposing registration of the
Defendant's mark and other similar marks would be indicative of the fact that
there was no abandonment by the Plaintiffs of their right to sue for
infringement and passing off;

(vi) The mark of the Plaintiffs was registered as a nutritional factor of the
Vitamin B Complex for the treatment of anemia and it is a misnomer to suggest
that the mark as registered is confined to a folic acid preparation. FOLVITE
is an invented word and so long as the registration continues to remain valid
and the mark continues on the Register, the consequence of an infringement
must follow;

(vii) In view of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Cadila Health Care Ltd
v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. a deceptive similarity in the case of medicinal
products must be dealt with by a great degree of strictness in order to
protect the members of the public from the serious consequences that may ensue
as a result of such confusion;

(viii) The relevant date for the cause of action is the date on which the
conduct of the Defendant commenced. In the present case, the Plaintiffs have
established sales of Rs. 9.89 crores in the year 200001 and Rs. 60 crores
between 1990 and 2001 in respect of the mark FOLVITE. The Defendant has
adduced no proof whatsoever of the actual sales of the other products using
the prefix FOL;

(ix) The Plaintiffs had opposed the registration of similar marks Fulivit and
FLUOVITE - one application was abandoned while the second was withdrawn;

(x) Having filed an application for the registration of FOLVITE, the Defendant
cannot be heard to say that their mark is not distinctive or that the word FOL
represents Folic acid and 'V', Vitamin. The argument would be self defeating.

7\. On the other hand, it has been urged on behalf of the Defendant that:

(i) There has been a delay on the part of the Plaintiffs in moving the Court
in circumstances in which an inference can be drawn that there has been an
acquiescence in the conduct of business by the Defendant with the use of the
offending mark. There is a distinction between registration and use of a mark
and while the Plaintiffs were opposing the registration of the mark, they
consciously made a decision not to oppose the use of the mark, allowing the
business of the Defendant to be built up over a period of seven years;

(ii) The judgment of the Supreme Court in Cadila Health Care which holds that
a stricter test should be applied in the case of pharmaceutical Page 0417
products, should not be applied to all classes of medicines but only to those
cases where both the drugs are meant for curing the same ailment but the
compositions are different;

(iii) There is no phonetic or structural similarity between the two marks.
Under Section 30(2)(a) of the Trade Mark Act, 1999, a registered trade mark is
not infringed where the use in relation to goods or services indicates inter
alia the kind, quality, intended purpose or other characteristic of the goods
and services;

(iv) The abbreviation FOL stands for FOLICACID, while the abbreviation VIT
stands for Vitamin, both of which are generic descriptions common to the
trade. When a word consists of a common element, greater emphasis must be laid
on the uncommon elements. Consequently, in assessing where there is deceptive
similarity, both sets of letters viz., "FOL" and "VIT" must be excluded. The
'e'is all that remains in the mark of the Plaintiffs.

8\. At the outset, it would be necessary to advert to the relevant provisions
of the Trade Marks Act, 1999. Section 28(1) of the Act confers upon the
registered proprietor of a trade mark, the exclusive right - upon a valid
registration - to the use of the trade mark in relation to goods or services
in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in
respect of infringement in the manner provided by the Act. Section 29(1)
provides that a registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being
a registered proprietor or a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the
course of trade, a mark which is identical with, or deceptively similar to the
trade mark in relation to goods or services in respect of which the trade mark
is registered and in such manner as to render the use of the mark likely to be
taken as being used as a trade mark. The expression "deceptively similar" is
defined in Section 2(1)(h):

A mark shall be deemed to be deceptively similar to another mark if it so
nearly resembles that other mark as to be likely to deceive or cause
confusion.

Section 30 of the Act defines limits on the effect of a registered trade mark.
Subsection (2) of Section 30 provides for certain situations in which a
registered trade mark is not infringed. Among them is a situation in which a
mark is used in relation to goods or services to indicate inter alia the kind,
quality, intended purpose, value, geographical origin or other characteristics
of the goods or services.

9\. The principles which must guide the Court in determining whether the
Defendant's mark is deceptively similar to the mark of the Plaintiffs were
enunciated in the judgment of Mr. Justice Parker in the Pionotist Case:
1906(23) RPC 774 You must take the two words. You must judge them, both by
their look and by their sound. You must consider the goods to which they are
to be applied. You must consider the nature and kind of customer who would be
likely to buy those goods. In fact, you must consider all the surrounding
circumstances; and you must further consider what is likely to happen if each
of those trade marks is used in a normal way Page 0418 as a trade mark for the
goods of the respective owners of the marks. If, considering all those
circumstances, you come to the conclusion that there will be a confusion -
that is to say, not necessarily that one man will be injured and the other
will gain illicit benefit, but that there will be a confusion in the mind of
the public which will lead to confusion in the goods - then you may refuse the
registration, or rather you must refuse the registration in that case.

The dictum of Justice Parker has been cited with approval in the judgments of
the Supreme Court in Amritdhara v. Lakshmandhara and more recently in Cadila
Health Care Ltd. v. Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra). The judgments of the
Division Bench of this Court in Ciba Ltd. v. M. Ramalingam 1957 (59) BLR 548
and Indchemie Health Specialities Pvt. Ltd. v. Naxpar Labs Pvt. Ltd. 2002(24)
PTC 341(Bom) follow the dictum.

10\. Since the judgment of the Supreme Court in National Sewing Thread Co.
Ltd. Chidambaram v. James Chadwick and Bros. Ltd. it is a settled principle of
law that the Court must assess each matter from the position of a purchaser
"who must be looked upon as an average man of ordinary intelligence". For it
is such a purchaser whose reaction to a particular trade mark has to be
considered and what association he would form, by looking at the trade mark
and in what respect he would connect the mark with the goods he would be
purchasing. In Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. the
mark of the appellant, "Glucovita", was registered. The Respondent applied for
the registration of the mark "Gluvita". The Deputy Registrar held that the
mark proposed to be registered by the Respondent was not visually and
phonetically similar. A Learned Single Judge of this Court held that the two
marks were sufficiently similar so as to be reasonably likely to cause
deception and confusion and held that the Respondent's mark could not be
registered. A Division Bench on appeal held inter alia that there were a
series of marks in which the prefix or suffix 'Gluco'or 'Vita'occurred and it
could not be said that these common features were only associated with the
appellant's case. The judgment of the Learned Single Judge was set aside. The
Supreme Court set aside the judgment of the Division Bench of this Court and
restored the order of the Learned Single Judge. The Supreme Court dealt with
the finding of the Division Bench that trade marks with the prefix or suffix
'Gluco' and 'Vita' were common features of the trade and could not be
associated only with the appellant's product, and observed thus:

The second point on which the learned appellate Judges based themselves in
arriving at the conclusion that there was no reasonable apprehension of
confusion or deception was, as we have earlier stated, Page 0419 that there
were various trade marks with a prefix or suffix 'Gluco'or 'Vita'and that made
it impossible to say that the common features 'Glu' and 'Vita' were only
associated with the appellant's products. This view was founded on a passage
which the learned appellate Judges quoted from Kerly on Trade Marks, 7th Edn.,
p.624. That passage may be summarised thus:

Where there are a "series of marks, registered or unregistered, having a
common feature or a common syllable, if the marks in the series are owned by
different persons, this tends to assist the applicant for a mark containing
the common feature. This statement of the law in Kerly's book is based on In
re: an Application by Beck, Koller and Co. (England) Ltd., (1947) 64 R.P. C.
76.

It is clear however, from that case, as we shall presently show, that before
the applicant can seek to derive assistance for the success of his application
from the presence of a number of marks having one or more common features
which occur in his mark also, he has to prove that these marks had acquired a
reputation by user in the market.

(emphasis supplied) The Supreme Court cited with approval the judgment in re:
Harrods Application and the principle therein that the character comprising of
a common element should be established to be in fairly extensive use. The
Supreme Court observed thus:

(15) The series of marks containing the common element or elements therefore
only assist the applicant when these marks are in extensive use in the market.
The onus of proving such user is of course on the applicant, who wants to rely
on those marks. Now in the present case the applicant, the respondent before
us, led no evidence as to the user of marks with the common element. What had
happened was that the Deputy Registrar looked into his register and found
there a large number of marks which had either 'Gluco' or 'Vita' as prefix or
suffix in it. Now of course the presence of a mark in the register does not
prove its user at all. It is possible that the mark may have been registered
but not used. It is not permissible to draw any inference as to their user
from the presence of the marks on the register. If any authority on this
question is considered necessary, reference may be made to Kerly p. 507 &
Willesden Varnish Co. Ltd. v. Young & Marten Ltd. (1922) 39 RPC 185 at p. 289.

(emphasis supplied) The Supreme Court noted that the Court would have to give
due regard to the position that the word was an English word and was a foreign
word to the mass of the Indian people and observed that in deciding a question
of similarity between two marks, the marks have to be considered as a whole.
Again, the question has to be approached "from the point of view of a man of
average intelligence and/or imperfect recollection". To such a person, the
structural and phonetic similarity and the similarity of the idea underlying
the two marks was held to be reasonably likely to result in confusion.

Page 0420

11\. The same principles were reiterated by the Supreme Court in Amritdhara
Pharmacy (supra) and in Durga Dutt Sharmav. N.P. Laboratories. In F.
HoffmannLa Roche & Co. Ltd. v. Geofferey Manners & Co. Pvt. Ltd. the question
was as to whether the mark 'Dropovit'of the Respondent was deceptively similar
to the registered mark 'Protovit' of the Appellant so as to warrant a removal
from the register. The Joint Registrar had dismissed an application for
rectification of the Register made by the Appellant, for the removal of the
Respondent's mark and the decision was affirmed by a Learned Single Judge and
a Division Bench of this Court. The Supreme Court observed that the affidavits
of the Appellant itself indicated that the last three letters 'VIT'
constituted a well known abbreviation in the pharmaceutical trade to denote
vitamin preparations. The abbreviation 'vit' in both the marks was regarded as
being descriptive and common to the trade. The Supreme Court held that if
greater regard was to be had to the uncommon element, it was difficult to hold
that the prefix 'Dropo' would be confused with 'Proto'. The Supreme Court
reiterated the test that the two marks would have to be compared as a whole
and little assistance would be obtained from a meticulous comparison, letter
for letter. The Court would have to make an allowance for a person with
imperfect recollection. Thus considered the word Dropovit was held not to be
deceptively similar to Protovit.

12\. In Cadila Health Care (supra), the Supreme Court revisited the entire
issue of deceptive similarity in the context of pharmaceutical preparations.
About a year before the decision in Cadila, there was an earlier decision of
the Court in S.M. Dyechem Ltd. v. Cadbury (India) Ltd. in which it was
observed that where common marks are included in rival trade marks, more
regard was to be paid to the parts not common and the proper course was to
look at the marks as a whole, but at the same time not to disregard the parts
which are common. The Court had observed that dissimilarities in essential
features in devices and composite marks are more important than some
similarity. The Supreme Court disapproved of the formulation of legal
principle in S.M. Dyechem and observed that decisions of the Court over four
decades had laid down that what was required to be analysed in an action for
passing off was the similarity between the competing marks and the likelihood
of deception. The factors which were enunciated by the Supreme Court in
deciding the issue of deceptive similarity are as follows :

(a) The nature of the marks i.e. whether the marks are word marks or label
marks or composite marks, i.e. both words and label marks;

b) The degree of resemblance between the marks, phonetically similar and hence
similar in idea;

Page 0421

c) The nature of the goods in respect of which they are used as trade marks;

d) The similarity in the nature, character and performance of the goods of the
rival traders;

e) The class of purchasers who are likely to buy the goods bearing the marks
they require, or their education and intelligence and a degree of care they
are likely to exercise in purchasing and/or using the goods;

f) The mode of purchasing the goods or placing orders for the goods; and

g) Any other surrounding circumstances which may be relevant in the extent of
dissimilarity between the competing marks.

13\. The Supreme Court emphasized the need of a stricter standard in matters
of infringement and passing off involving pharmaceutical products in Cadila:
At paragraph 32 page 1964 Public interest would support lesser degree of proof
showing confusing similarity in the case of trade mark in respect of medicinal
product as against other nonmedicinal product. Drugs are poisons, not sweets.
Confusion between medical products may, therefore, be life threatening, not
merely inconvenient.

14\. But the Defendant in the present case has submitted that the observations
of the Supreme Court in Cadila must be confined to those cases where the
competing marks are used in drugs with different compositions and in support
of this submission, reliance has been placed on the following observations
contained in paragraph 25 of Cadila:

The drugs have a marked difference in the compositions with completely
different side effects, the test should be applied strictly as the possibility
of harm resulting from any kind of confusion by the consumer can have
unpleasant if not disastrous results. The Courts need to be particularly
vigilant where the defendant's drug, of which passing of is alleged, is meant
for curing the same ailment as the plaintiffs medicine but the compositions
are different. The confusion is more likely in such cases and the incorrect
intake of medicine may even result in loss of life or other serious health
problems.

The judgment of the Supreme Court in Cadila has to be read in its entirety.
The width and ambit of the test laid down by the Supreme Court cannot be
restricted by an artificial process of construction which focuses attention
only upon the observations contained in the aforesaid extract. In fact, in a
subsequent part of the judgment, Supreme Court held thus:

What is likely to cause confusion would vary from case to case. However, the
appellants are right in contending that where medicinal products are involved,
the test to be applied for adjudging the violation of trade mark law may not
be at par with cases involving non medicinal products. A stricter approach
should be adopted while applying the test to Judge the possibility of
confusion of one medicinal product for another by the consumer. While
confusion in the case of non medicinal products may only cause economic loss
to the plaintiff, confusion between the two medicinal products may have
disastrous effect on Page 0422 health and in some cases life itself. Stringent
measures should be adopted specially where medicines are the medicines of last
resort as any confusion in such medicines may be fatal or could have
disastrous effects. The confusion as to the identity of the product itself
could have dire effect on the public health.

14A. As a matter of principle, it would be inappropriate for the Court to
apply a stricter standard only to a particular class of medicinal
preparations. If the Court were to do this, it would have to make artificial
distinctions from case to case based on whether or not the Court considers
that a confusion arising out of the medicinal product in issue may or may not
have disastrous effects on health and life. Such an approach is impermissible.
An ostensibly innocuous medicinal preparation taken for an affliction which is
not life threatening may yet result in a serious danger to life and health,
where the drug is not manufactured under correct conditions. A consumer who
desires to obtain a medicine even for an ordinary ailment is entitled to be
sure that the drug that he purchases is of an assured character and quality. A
manufacturer builds up a reputation for quality and standards assiduously over
a length of time and an established mark assures to the consumer that the
medicine which he has purchased is of a requisite quality that is associated
with the mark. A less than strict standard cannot be applied on the hypothesis
that the ailment which the drug is intended to treat is not life threatening,
nor for that matter can the application of a lower standard be justified
merely on the ground that the composition of the Plaintiff's product is the
same as that of the Defendant and the confusion caused by mistaking one for
the other would not result in a danger to health. Undoubtedly, where the
competing drugs are meant to cure the same ailment but the compositions are
different, mistaking one for the other may result in deleterious consequences.
But, merely because the two competing marks are used for drugs with the same
composition that would not justify applying a lower standard of scrutiny. For,
even in such a case, the public interest lies in protecting the consumer
against an unwary purchase of a deceptively similar product. The consumer must
be protected against a reasonable possibility of confusion arising out of a
deceptively similar mark. The attempt, therefore, to read down Cadila is
impermissible.

15\. The Plaintiffs are proprietors of the mark Folvite of which registration
dates back to 1946. The Plaint contains a disclosure of the sales and the
sales promotion expenses since 1981. The sales for the years 19992000 and
200001 were Rs. 9.28 crores and Rs. 9.89 crores respectively. Between 1980 and
2001, the Plaintiffs had total sales of Rs. 60 crores. The relevant date for
determining whether the Plaintiffs have an established reputation or goodwill
is the date of commencement of the conduct complained of. Narayanan on Trade
Marks, 6th Edition page 728. The sales figures disclosed by the Plaintiffs for
the relevant years prima facie demonstrate an established reputation and
goodwill associated with the mark FOLVITE.

16\. The Defendant commenced the use of the mark in December 2000. It is an
undisputed position before the Court that the Defendant had originally adopted
the mark FOLCACID. To the adoption of that mark the Plaintiffs Page 0423 had
no objection. This brand name was changed to FOLV for which the Drugs Control
Authorities signified their permission of 19th December 2000. The Defendant
sought registration of the mark in an application of 31st May 2000 which
reflected that the mark was proposed to be used. In seeking the registration
of mark FOLV, the Defendant could not have been unaware of the existence on
the Register of the mark of the Plaintiffs. A search of the Register would
reveal that the mark FOLVITE had remained on the Register since 1946. The
Defendant has furnished no cogent explanation before the Court in altering the
mark under which their product was being sold and for the adoption of the new
mark. The Plaintiffs contend that the adoption of the mark FOLV by the
Defendant was neither bona fide nor honest and in the absence of a cogent
explanation, the challenge of the Plaintiffs must be regarded as possessing
substance.

17\. In considering the question of deceptive similarity, the two marks have
to be considered as a whole. The structure of the mark visually and
phonetically must be borne in mind. The image which the Court must have is
that of the quintessential common man. When the Judge looks at phonetics, the
sound which accompanies the pronunciation of the mark is the sound of the mark
to an ordinary purchaser bereft of the niceties of language. Structurally and
phonetically FOLV falls within that perilous zone where approximation to the
mark of the Plaintiffs is close enough to be deceptively similar. It is to my
mind, no answer to state that the Plaintiffs intend that the VITE in their
mark is to be so pronounced as to rhyme with 'white' while the Defendant
intends that the "V" in their mark has to be so pronounced as to rhyme with
the 'V' in 'victory' and to then make a distinction between VITE and the V.
The ordinary customer goes to a small shop of a Chemist and to him the
distinction between FOLVITE on the one hand and FOLV on the other is so thin
as to almost be lacking in significance. It may well be that the manner in
which the mark of the Plaintiffs is written in Devnagari may make the VITE in
the mark resemble 'white'. But every customer in a multi lingual country such
as India is not conversant with that script. An average consumer who asks for
FOLVITE would fail to gauge the distinction when he is given a strip of
tablets of FOLV and that is what matters on the question of deceptive
similarity.

18\. The contention of the Defendant is that the mark FOLVITE is a combination
of FOL which stands for folic acid and VIT which is an abbreviation for
Vitamin. The theory propounded by the Defendant is that the Plaintiffs cannot
assert a monopoly over folic acid on the one hand and Vitamin on the other by
adding an "e" to an abbreviation of the two words. This argument of the
Defendant clearly misses the point and there are several reasons why it cannot
be accepted. First and foremost, the word FOLVITE has absolutely no meaning in
the English language. It is an invented word. As the Supreme Court observed in
Cadila, it is not right to take a part of a word and compare it with a part of
another. Each word must be taken as a whole and compared as a whole with the
other:

It is not right to take a portion of the word and say that because that
portion of the word differs from the corresponding portion of the word in the
other case, there is no sufficient similarity to cause confusion.

Page 0424

19\. Secondly, it is a settled principle of law that so long as a mark
continues on the Register, it is not open to the Defendant in an action for
infringement to question the validity of the registration. Subsection (1) of
Section 31 postulates that in all legal proceedings relating to a trade mark
registered under the Act, the original registration of the trade mark and of
all subsequent assignments and transmissions of the mark shall be prima facie
evidence of the validity thereof. The sequitur of the submission of the
Defendant is that the mark of the Plaintiffs comprises of a generic
description of two elements, namely, folic acid and Vitamin, resulting thereby
in the mark losing its distinctive character. During the course of the
submissions, however, Mr. Dhond, the Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of
the Defendant who argued the case with felicity, submits that the Defendant
does not question the distinctive character of the mark of the Plaintiffs or
the validity of the mark. The mark of the Plaintiffs constitutes a composite
invented word and it would not be open to the Defendant by a process of
breaking down the mark to claim that it is only a combination of common
elements. Such an exercise would be impermissible and so long as the mark
continues to borne on the Register of Trade Marks, the validity of the mark
cannot be questioned.

20\. Thirdly, before the Court can accept that the words incorporated in a
mark are elements which are common to the trade or business, certain essential
ingredients must demonstrably be established. The judgment of the Supreme
Court in Corn Products (supra) categorically lays down the principle of law
that before an applicant can assert the presence of a number of marks having
one or more common features in the trade "he has to prove that these marks had
acquired a reputation by user in the market". The onus of establishing this
lies on him who asserts the existence of such other mark. The judgment in Corn
Products emphasizes that the presence of a mark in the Register does not prove
its use and it is quite possible that the mark may have been registered but
not used. Now, from this stand point if the material which is produced by the
Defendant is assessed, the Defendant relies upon a Continuous Prescription
Report of a Calcutta based agency, C. Marc. The parameters on the basis on
which the survey was carried out have not been set out. The period of the
report is between September and October 2007 which is irrelevant to the period
when the cause of action arose. The relevant date for determining whether the
Plaintiffs have established a reputation and goodwill is the date of the
commencement of the action complained of. The relevant date for determining
whether the conduct of the Defendant amounts to passing off is when the
conduct commenced. The relevant period for which material ought to have been
produced is the year 200001. No proof has been produced of the actual sales of
those other products or that the sales were extensive. The same position holds
in respect of the issue of the Current Index of Medical Specialties which is
for the period July to October 2007 and of the periodical Drug Today which is
for July to September 2007.

21\. Fourthly, the mark of the Plaintiff has been registered as a nutritional
factor of the Vitamin Bcomplex in the treatment and prevention of vitamin Page
0425 deficiencies and anemia. Butter worth's Medical Dictionary (2nd edition
p. 1822) identifies the factors of the vitamin B complex as :

1\. Thiamine.... 2. Riboflavine.... 3. Pyridoxine.... 4. Folic acid.... 5.
Biotin.... 6. Aminobenzoic acid.... 7. Vitamin B12.... 8. Nicotinic acid,
pyridine Bcarboxylic acid.... 9. Pantothenic acid.... 10. Inositol.... 11.
Choline....

Therefore, it would in the nature of things be impermissible to equate the
registration of the mark of the Plaintiff for a preparation involving folic
acid alone.

22\. This principle was followed in a judgment of a Learned Single Judge (S.J.
Vazifdar, J.) in Pidilite Industries Ltd. v. S.M. Associates 2004(28) PTC 193
(Bom) and by the Delhi High Court in Remidex Pharma Private Limited. v. Savita
pharmaceuticals P. Ltd. 2006(33) PTC 157 (Del.) and Glaxo Group Limited v.
Vipin Gupta 2006(33) PTC 145 (Del.). A Division Bench of this Court consisting
of Chief Justice C.K. Thakker (as His Lordship then was) and Mr. Justice S.
Radhakrishnan in Medley Laboratories (P) Ltd. v. Alkem Laboratories Limited
2002(25) PTC 592 (Bom), considered the question of deceptive similarity in an
action for infringement and passing off where the Defendant started selling a
pharmaceutical preparation under the mark 'Supaxin' which was claimed to be
deceptively similar to the Plaintiff's registered mark 'Spoxin'. The medicinal
preparation of the Plaintiffs contained a generic drug Sparfloxacin. The
Defendant used the mark Supaxin for its preparation based on Ofloxacin. A
Learned Single Judge of this Court had declined ad interim relief holding that
the explanation of the Defendant for the adoption of the mark was plausible
and the marks were not phonetically similar. Relying on the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Cadila, the Division Bench, while allowing the appeal set
aside the order declining adinterim relief and observed thus:

The case of the appellants is that suffix 'XIN' being common to both the
drugs, there is likelihood of confusion. The mark of the plaintiffs is
registered, and, hence, it has statutory protection. It relates to a medicinal
preparation. In the circumstances, in our opinion, the test of 'possibility'
laid down in Cadila Healthcare Ltd. would apply. Applying the said test, there
is likelihood, or in any case, possibility of consumer being confused, and the
plaintiffs were entitled to interim injunction. Moreover, SPOXIN and SUPAXIN
are visually, phonetically and structurally similar. No doubt, both the drugs
are sold under prescription, but that fact alone is not sufficient to prevent
confusion which is likely to arise.

23\. A large number of authorities have been cited by Learned Counsel
appearing for the contesting parities. Once the principle which forms the
basis for adjudication is formulated, the outcome of each case necessarily
turns on the application of the principle to the facts of that case. The
Defendant relied upon a judgment of the Division Bench in Johann A. Wulfing v.
Chemical Industrial & Pharmaceutical Laboratories Limited where the Court held
that visually and phonetically, the Page 0426 marks Complamina and Ciplamina
were as a matter of first impression not deceptively similar. The judgment of
the Supreme Court in F. HoffimannLa Roche (Supra) involved a fact situation
where the marks Dropovit and Protovit were held not be deceptively similar.
Affidavits were filed before the Supreme Court by the appellants themselves
who were aggrieved by the rejection of an application for rectification of the
register, that there were as many as 57 trade marks registered with the suffix
'VIT'which denoted vitamin preparations. The Supreme Court held that the marks
would have to be considered as a whole and the different prefixes of the two
marks belied the claim of deceptive similarity. The prefix 'Dropo'was
sufficiently distinguished from the prefix 'Proto'. In the judgment of the
Delhi High Court in SBL Ltd. v. Himalaya Drug Co. 1997(17) PTC 540 the word
'LIV'was regarded as a generic abbreviation of 'Liver' so as to afford the
Defendant a valid defence in an action for infringement and passing off. The
decided cases furnish other instances. Among them is a judgment of the Delhi
High Court where a trade mark of a medicinal preparation (Nimulid) is wholly
derived from the principal drug used in its manufacture (Nimesulide). (Panacea
Biotec Ltd. v. Recon Ltd. . Griffon Laboratories (P) Ltd. v. Indian National
Drug Co. P. Ltd. Order dated 18-9-11987 in Suit 399/1985 (Calcutta High Court)
was a decision of the Calcutta High Court where both the preparations
-Sorbiline and Sorbitone were derived from the drug Sorbitol used in the
preparation. Reference may also be made to the decisions in Kalindi Medicure
Pvt. Ltd. v. Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd. 2006(33) PTC 477 (Del) and Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. v. Indohemie Health Specialities Pvt. Ltd. 2002(24) PTC 510
(Bom)) Several of these cases turn on the application of the principle to the
facts of each case. In certain decisions which were rendered before the
decision of the Supreme Court in Cadila, the approach of the Court may now
need to be reconsidered in view of the principle of strict scrutiny enunciated
in Cadila. For instance, in the Liv 52 case (supra), an important
consideration which weighed with the Delhi High Court was that the sales of
medicinal preparations were made only by authorised or licensed vendors and a
purchaser would normally have a Doctors' prescription, the purchasers
continuing to remain in touch with the Doctors. Learned Counsel for the
Defendant fairly did not therefore, rely on this part of the reasoning of that
decision. The same reasoning forms the basis of the judgment of a Learned
Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court in Griffon Laboratories (supra) where
the Court held that medicines are either advertised in Special Journals or are
prescribed by doctors and the prescriptions are served by registered Chemists.
The Calcutta High Court observed that the public does not enter into the
picture at all, in the selection of the product for after all it is the doctor
who knows what is good for the heart and good for the liver. This line of
reasoning is inconsistent with the law laid down by the Supreme Court in
Cadila. A Learned Single Judge of this Court held in Schering Corporation v.
United Biotech (P) Ltd. Notice of Motion No. 3459/2004 in Suit No. 3419/2004,
dated 14-7-2006 that the Defendants'mark 'Netmicin'did not Page 0427 infringe
the mark 'Netromycin' of the Plaintiffs or amount to passing off. The Learned
Judge was of the view that the Plaintiffs had not been able to establish the
distinctiveness of their mark and the words Netmicin and Netromycin were not
phonetically similar. There was no possibility of confusion because while the
Defendants' product was purchased in bulk by hospitals, the Plaintiffs'
product was sold over the counter. Moreover, the Learned Single Judge accepted
the claim that there were several other pharmaceutical products being traded
in the market, ending with the letters MYCIN, MICIN and CIN. In Bal Pharma
Ltd. v. Wockhardt Limited Judgment dated 12-6-2002 in Appeal 498/2002 in
Notice of Motion 725/02 in Suit 1305/02 the mark AZIWOK was regarded as
distinct from as AZIWIN. The Division Bench accepted the contention of the
appellant that various brands of Azithromycin in the tablet and syrup form
were being marketed by pharmaceutical Companies and AZI was an abbreviation
for the generic name of the drug. There were thirteen other Companies which
were using the prefix AZI. It was in these circumstances, that the word AZI
was regarded as not being distinctive but as common to the trade. The suffixes
WOK and WIN were regarded as dissimilar. The judgment of a Learned Single
Judge in Medley Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Khandelwal Laboratories Ltd. Judgment
dated 27-9-2005 in Notice of Motion 2808/02 in Suit 3323/02 holds that the
mark CEFO of the Plaintiff and CEFI of the Defendant used for the manufacture
and sale of Cefixime were not deceptively similar. In affirming the view of
the Learned Single Judge, the Division Bench in the judgment in appeal (Appeal
1118 of 2005, decided on 22nd December 2005) held that there were cefixme
preparations available in the market, using the prefix CEF and sales of those
products were in millions of rupees. The finding of the Trial Judge that the
Plaintiff had failed to establish the distinctiveness of his mark was,
therefore, held not to suffer from any infirmity.

24\. All these are cases where there was ample and demonstrable material
before the Court to hold that there was a substantial sale involving competing
products using a generic description of the bulk drug from which a preparation
was manufactured. That is the distinguishing feature in the decided cases.

25\. Counsel appearing on behalf of the Defendant has submitted that the
Plaintiffs must be regarded as having acquiesced in the use of the mark by the
Defendant for seven years. There is no merit in the contention. The
ingredients spelt out in the judgment of the Supreme Court in Power Control
Appliances v. Sumit Machines Pvt. Ltd. 1994(1) PTC 117 to establish
acquiescence are lacking. In the present case the conduct of the Plaintiffs
shows that immediately after the application of the Defendant for the
registration of the mark was advertised, the Plaintiffs opposed the
registration by adopting due process of law. Similarly, material has been
placed before the Court to indicate that the Plaintiffs had pursued similar
cases involving infringements of their mark by others. An application for the
registration of a trade mark FULVIT was withdrawn on 9th March 2006, the
application having been made by Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Similarly, an
application for the registration of the mark FOLIVIT was abandoned Page 0428
and an order was passed by the Deputy Registrar, Chennai on 17th October 2007.
The Plaintiffs have been vigilant to protect themselves against infringing
marks by opposing these registrations.

26\. The Plaintiffs have established a prima facie case for the grant of
interim relief. The Plaintiffs are the proprietors of the mark Folvite of
which the registration dates back to 1946. Associated with the mark, is a
reputation and goodwill which has been built up over the last 60 years. The
Defendant has no cogent explanation for changing the mark FOLCACID to FOLV.

The mark of the Defendant is deceptively similar. The balance of convenience
in a case such as the present is in favour of the grant of an interim
injunction. Irreparable harm would be caused to the Plaintiffs if an
injunction were not to be granted.

The Motion is made absolute in terms of prayer Clauses (a), (b), (c1) and
(c2).

