

Delhi High Court

Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. vs Dua Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. on 22 July, 1988

Equivalent citations: AIR 1989 Delhi 44, 1988 (2) ARBLR 315 Delhi, 36 (1988)
DLT 133

Author: B Kirpal

Bench: B Kirpal

JUDGMENT B.N. Kirpal, J.

(1) The plaintiff has filed a suit alleging that its registered trade mark
"CALMPOSE" has been infringed by the defendant, who is manufacturing similar
medicine and marketing under the mark of "CALMPROSE". The prayer in the suit
is for a perpetual injunction and for a decree for rendition of accounts.

(2) Along with the plaint the plaintiff has also filed an application under
Order 39, Rules 1 & 2 Civil Procedure Code and has prayed for an ad interim
injunction. It is averred that the plaintiff has had the trade mark registered
since 6th March 1970 and has sold "CALMPOSE" worth about Rs. 40.16 crores
since its adoption and has spent about Rs. 16.43 lakhs on sales promotion from
January to August, 1987. The said medicine are Diazepam tablets of 5 mg each.
It is also contended that not only is the mark of the defendant phonetically
and visually similar, but even the packing of the defendant of the said
medicine is similar to that of the plaintiff. The plaintiff is using two
colours, namely, silver and brown and the packing is done in aluminium foil on
one side and polythene film on the other ; and the packing of the defendant is
similar to that of the plaintiff.

(3) Ad interim ex parte injunction was issued. In the reply which has been
filed, it is contended that the medicine in question is sold by chemists on
the prescription of a medical practitioner and. therefore, the persons cannot
be deceived by the said mark. It is further contended that the words used on
the strips containing the medicine are different and the word "CALMPROSE" is
phonetically different from the plaintiff's mark "CALMPOSE".

(4) Shri Bharat Inder Singh, learned counsel for the defendant has raised two
contentions before me. He has firstly submitted that the two marks are
phonetically different. In this connection, he relies upon a Division Bench
authority reported as Stadmed Private Ltd. vs. Hind Chemicals (AIR 1965 Punjab
17). In this case the two words involved were "ENTOZINE" and "ENTROZYME". The
High Court came to the conclusion that the said words were phonetically
different. In my opinion, the tw6 words in the present case, namely,
"CALMPOSE" and "CALMPROSE" are phonetically and even visually similar. What
the defendant has done is to insert the letter "R" in the middle of the word
and converted "CALMPOSE" to "CALMPROSE". The intention of the defendant
clearly is to cash in on the reputation which has been built up by the
plaintiff over the years in the sale of its medicine "CALMPOSE", the turnover
of which is stated to be over Rs. 40 crores. It is certainly not by accident
that the defendant has coined or hit upon the word "CALMPROSE". It is, to my
mind, a deliberate attempt to adopt another person's trade mark to one's
advantage.

(5) The decision of the Punjab High Court in Stadmed's case (supra) cannot be
of any assistance to the defendant in the present case. The spellings of the
two words "ENTOZINE" and 'ENTROZYME" are different because the word
'ENTROZYME" contained there letters R, Y & M which are not present in the word
"ENTOZINE". It is true that the Court in that case felt that the two words
were not phonetically similar, but in this regard reference may also be made
to the following observations of another Division Bench of the Punjab High
Court in the case of Anglo-French Drug. Co. (Eastern) Ltd. vs. Belco Pharma
where with reference to the decision in Stadmed's case (supra) the High Court
observed as follows: "WE are not called upon to decide whether 'ENTROZYME' and
'ENTOZINE' are phonetically and visually similar, but if we had a case like
this before us, we might have taken the view that the two names are visually
and phonetically similar."

I also tend to agree with the observations of Punjab High Court in Angio
French's case. In any case. I have no doubt in my mind that the two words
"CALMPOSE" and " CALMPROSE" are phonetically similar.

(6) It was then contended by the learned counsel for the defendant that the
said medicines can only be sold on the doctor's prescription and, therefore,
there can be little likelihood of confusion. It is true that the said drugs
are supposed to be sold on doctor's prescription, but it is not unknown that
the same are also available across the counters in the shops of various
chemists. It is also not unknown that the chemists who may not have "CALMPOSE"
may pass off the medicine "CALMPROSE" to an unwary purchaser as the medicine
prepared by the plaintiff. The test to be adopted is not the knowledge of the
doctor, who is giving the prescription. The test to be adopted is whether the
unwary customer, who goes to purchase the medicine can make a mistake.

(7) I have also been shown the strips containing the medicines manufactured by
the parties. It is clear that the dimension of the strip of the defendant is
practically the same as the one made by the plaintiff ; the type of packaging
is identical ; the colour scheme is similar and even the manner of writing is
not very different. This is a clear case of an attempt by the defendant to
pass off its product as that of the plaintiff.

(8) For the aforesaid reasons, the interim injunction issued on 30th November,
1987 is made absolute pending disposal of the main suit. I.A. stands disposed
of.

