

Delhi High Court

Hawkins Cookers Limited vs Murugan Enterprises on 4 January, 2008

Equivalent citations: MIPR 2008 (1) 128, 2008 (36) PTC 290 Del

Author: S K Kaul

Bench: S K Kaul

JUDGMENT Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.

1\. The plaintiff is an existing Public Limited Company within the meaning of
Companies Act, 1956 and has instituted the present suit for permanent
injunction restraining infringement of trademark, passing off, delivery up and
rendition of accounts etc. against the sole defendant.

2\. The plaintiff claims to be a reputed and established company inter alia
engaged in the manufacture of pressure cookers and parts thereof under the
trademark HAWKINS for the last 30 years. The name of the plaintiff company was
changed from M/s Pressure Cookers and Appliances Limited to the present name
of M/s Hawkins Cookers Limited in the year 1986. The plaintiff is the
registered proprietor of the trademark HAWKINS from 06.05.1957 in Class 21
under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 in respect of pressure cookers
and parts thereof. The trademark registration No. 179714 is for HAWKINS
UNIVERSAL but the mark registered is HAWKINS and the word UNIVERSAL is subject
to disclaimer. The registrations are stated to be valid and subsisting. The
plaintiff claims that the trademark HAWKINS forms a predominant feature of the
corporate name and trading style of the plaintiff and the plaintiff is also
referred in the abbreviated form of 'Hawkins'.

3\. The trademark HAWKINS is inter alia used for parts of the pressure cookers
known as gaskets. The gaskets of the pressure cookers are sold as independent
items and are purchased as such by the housewives and servants whenever the
old pieces are worn out or need replacement. The gaskets are one of the most
crucial and intergral part of a pressure cooker which prevents the steam from
leaking out of the cooker. It is the steam pressure inside the cooker which
cooks the food quickly. Thus, gaskets of poor quality or defective gaskets can
lead to bursting of cooker and consequential burn injuries. It is in view
thereof that the plaintiff has a quality control department to ensure that its
pressure cookers and various parts thereof are of the required quality and
standard. The plaintiff claims that since these gaskets are sold all over the
country including rural as well as urban areas, the uneducated intending
purchasers of below average intelligence, being illiterate and having
imperfect recollection, identify such gaskets by their features and get-up of
their packing as well as the trademark HAWKINS. It is in order to promote the
pressure cookers and parts thereof manufactured by the plaintiff that the
plaintiff has spent a sum of Rs. 111 crore between October, 1986 and March,
2005 towards advertisements and promotions.

4\. The plaintiff in January, 2000 came to know that the defendant was using
the trademark HAWKINS/Hawkins in respect of parts of pressure cooker and thus
served a Cease and Desist Notice on the defendant vide its letter dated
03.01.2000. The claim of the plaintiff was disputed by the defendant on the
ground that the gaskets were being sold under their own trademark and the use
of the word 'Hawkins' by the defendant on their products/gaskets was to inform
the purchasers that the gaskets being manufactured by the defendant were
suitable for Hawkins pressure cookers. The plaintiff claims that they did not
see the product subsequently in the market till October, 2004 when the
plaintiff again noticed the defendant's gaskets being sold in the market and
thus again a Cease and Desist Notice dated 08.11.2004 was issued, which was
disputed by the defendant vide its letter dated 17.11.2004

5\. The principal defense of the defendant is that they have adopted the
trademark MAYUR and only state on their product/gasket that the same is
suitable was Hawkins Pressure Cookers. Thus there is no chance of deception or
infringement of the trademark of the plaintiff since the trademark of the
defendant MAYUR has been used prominently on the packing of their
product/gasket.

6\. On the other hand, the case of the plaintiff is that the unauthorized use
of the trademark Hawkins by the defendant on the packaging of their
product/gasket is likely to cause confusion or deception about a nexus, trade
connection or association between the goods and business of the defendant with
that of the plaintiff. This is more so since the purchasers of the plaintiff's
products are not so wary customers. The plaintiff claims that the use of the
trademark 'Hawkins' by the defendant is detrimental to the plaintiff's
reputation since the plaintiff has no control or supervision over the quality
of spare parts manufactured by the defendant. The use of the trademark
'Hawkins' by the defendant is alleged to be motivated only with the intent of
the defendant to trade upon the goodwill and reputation enjoyed by the
trademark HAWKINS of the plaintiff in the market and amongst the customers.
The trademark HAWKINS of the plaintiff is also used in the price list of the
defendant as MAYUR-HAWKINS. It is in view thereof that the present suit has
been filed by the plaintiff.

7\. The suit is resisted by the defendant. The defendant claims that the
plaintiff wants to monopolize the sale of gaskets which are used in pressure
cookers in the market. The defendant manufactures gaskets which can be used
for different types of pressure cookers including the pressure cookers
manufactured by the plaintiff. The defendant claims that it is a common
knowledge that there is always a second line of manufacturers of spare parts,
accessories and replacement items of machines, articles of everyday use,
domestic appliances and even for automobiles for every description, which is
known as ancillary industry. It is the well known custom of usage of the trade
of the second line manufacturers to specifically indicate the compatibility of
the various accessories, appliances and spares to the main item for which they
supply the ancillary product. This is stated to be essential information to
the customers so that they can select articles of a particular specification
for the main items used by them. The defendant thus states that the use of a
trademark of one person as a referral cannot be termed as infringement of
trademark and such user is not prohibited by any law much less by the Trade
and Merchandise Act, 1958 or the Trade Marks Act, 1999 ('the said Act' for
short). The object is only to inform the public that MAYUR gaskets can be used
for HAWKINS pressure cookers and it is only this much information which is set
out on the packaging of the defendant. The defendant claims to be
manufacturing MAYUR gaskets continuously and openly from the year 1994
onwards. The defendant claims to have adopted the trademark MAYUR and device
of PEACOCK from 1994. The trademark of the defendant is stated to have been
registered with the Registrar of Trademarks. It is thus claimed that the
defendant's trademark as also the device of peacock have acquired good
reputation in the market and the sales of the defendant's product/gasket is
only in Tamil Nadu. The defendant has also raised a plea of acquiescence on
account of the fact that after giving the initial Cease and Desist Notice as
far back as January, 2000, the plaintiff kept silent for a period of four
years thereafter. Even on merits, it is stated that there can be no question
of passing off the goods by the defendant as the gaskets manufactured by the
defendant come in different colours with a different packaging as compared to
the gaskets supplied by the plaintiff which come in black colour.

8\. The defendant naturally claims that the product manufactured by it is of
high value and there is no question of the product of the defendant being
inferior to that of the plaintiff.

9\. The gasket is used in the pressure cooker more as a sealing mechanism to
prevent leakage of steam, which seals the upper and lower portion of the
cooker but it does not lock the metal portion of the cooker. Thus there is no
question of the role of any defective gasket in bursting of a pressure cooker.
The defendant claims that it commenced business from 1991 and the quality
standards of the gaskets manufactured by the defendant are approved by the
Bureau of Indian Standards. However, the trademark MAYUR and the device of
PEACOCK were adopted in the year 1994.

10\. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues were framed:

i) Whether this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to try and adjudicate
the present suit? OPD

ii) Whether the defendant is using 'Hawkins' as a trademark? OPP

iii) If issue No. 2 is answered in favor of the plaintiff : Whether the
defendant is infringing the trademark 'Hawkins' of the plaintiff? OPP

iv) If issue No. 2 is answered in favor of the plaintiff : Whether the
defendant is passing of its goods as that of the plaintiff? OPP

v) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to damages/rendition of accounts? If so,
the extent and period thereof? OPP

vi) Relief.

11\. The parties subsequently agreed on 21.05.2007 that really there was no
cross examination required and that the parties would file their affidavits of
examination in chief. The parties have thereafter led their evidence.

12\. The plaintiff has examined Sh. K.Sundararaghavan as PW1 being the
Executive Director (Finance and Administration) of the plaintiff-company, who
has proved the Power of Attorney executed in his favor as ExPW1/1. A certified
copy of the Certificate of Incorporation pursuant to the change of name of the
plaintiff has been proved as ExPW1/2. Certified copies of certificate of
registration have been proved as ExPW1/3 and ExPW1/4. The booklet containing
the information about the names and addresses of all the authorized dealers
and service centres of the plaintiff has been proved as ExPW1/6. The notice
dated 03.01.2000 has been proved as Ex P-1 and the reply of the defendant
dated 10.01.2000 has been proved as ExP-2. The exchange of correspondence
between the parties in November, 2004 has been proved as ExP-3 and ExP-4. The
other communications have also been proved, but it is not necessary to go into
details in that behalf. The packaging of the defendant has been proved as
ExP-10. The witness has affirmed to what is stated in the plaint.

13\. PW1 has also gone on to state that there are two types of pressure
cookers with following particulars:

(1) Pressure Cookers with outside fitting lid; and (2) Pressure Cookers with
inside fitting lid.

14\. The pressure cookers being manufactured by the plaintiff are stated to
fall in the second category. The dimensions of all the pressure cookers with
inside fitting lid and the size of the corresponding gasket are stated to be
generally identical to the various pressure cookers of the same variety and
thus the gaskets of all inside fitting lid pressure cookers are generally
interchangeable. It is in view thereof that the plaintiff claims that the
defendant cannot use the trademark HAWKINS or the endorsement i.e. the gasket
manufactured by the defendant is suitable for Hawkins pressure cookers.

15\. In order to prove that the product of the defendant was inferior, a
report dated 18.01.2007 has been proved as ExPW1/10 given by Indian Rubber
Manufacturers Research Association affiliated to Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, Government of India for the purpose of evaluation of quality of the
gaskets on various parameters prescribed for the gaskets. The report shows
that the defendant's gasket failed the test in vital parameters of i)Tensile
Strength, ii) Change in hardness and iii) Compression.

16\. Mr. Hansraj Karsan Satra has appeared as PW2 who runs a shop by the name
of Mahavir at Naupada, Thane (W) since the year 1979 and claims to be selling
HAWKINS pressure cookers and parts thereof. The witness has also stated that
there are two kinds of pressure cookers as mentioned aforesaid and that the
dimensions of all the lids which are inward opening are the same. Thus the
gaskets for inward opening lid of various brands of pressure cookers can be
interchangeably used. The importance of gasket in the performance of the
pressure cookers has been emphasized by this witness and various gaskets being
sold in the market under different trade names have been annexed to the
affidavit.

17\. The defendant has led evidence of Mr. V.K.Radhakrishnan, partner of the
defendant-firm. This witness has proved the Certificate of Registration of the
trademark MAYUR and the device of PEACOCK as ExDW1/1. The Certificate of
Bureau of Indian Standards to the defendant-firm has been proved as ExDW1/2
and the Registration Certificate dated 07.05.2004 issued to the defendant-firm
by the Director General of Quality Assurance, Ministry of defense has been
proved as ExDW1/3 to show the distinction between the packaging of the
plaintiff's product and the defendant's product. The witness stated that the
indication as to the compatibility of the various accessories, appliances and
spares to the main item for which they supply the ancillary product is
essential to the customers so that they can select articles of a particular
specification for the main items used by them.

18\. Learned Counsel for the parties were heard at length and the findings on
the issues are as under:

Issue No.1 Whether this Court has no territorial jurisdiction to try and
adjudicate the present suit? OPD

19\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff drew the attention of this Court to
para 32 of the plaint whereby jurisdiction is claimed of this Court under
Section 134 of the said Act since the plaintiff carries on business at Delhi.
It is further claimed that the goods of the defendant are being sold and are
being offered for sale at Delhi. Section 134 of the said Act reads as under:

134\. Suit for infringement, etc., to be instituted before district Court.-

(1) No suit -

(a) for the infringement of a registered trade mark, or

(b) relating to any right in a registered trade mark, or

(c) for passing off arising out of the use by the defendant of any trade mark
which is identical with or deceptively similar to the plaintiff's trade mark,
whether registered or unregistered. Shall be instituted in any court inferior
to a District Court having jurisdiction to try the suit.

(2) For the purpose of Clauses (a) and (b) of Sub-section (1), a ``District
Court having jurisdiction'` shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) or any other law for the time being
in force, include a District Court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction, at the time of the institution of the suit or other proceeding,
the person instituting the suit or proceeding, or where there are more than
one such person any of them, actually and voluntarily resides or carries on
business or personally works for gain.

Explanation.- For the purpose of Sub-section (2), ``person'` includes the
registered proprietor and the registered user.

20\. The aforesaid provision is a digression from the general norm as
contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 ('the said Code' for short)
inasmuch as it gives the jurisdiction to a Court where the plaintiff resides
or carries on business or works for gain.

21\. It is the case of the plaintiff that it is carrying on business at Delhi.
Learned Counsel for the plaintiff has drawn the attention of this Court in
Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited v. Allergan Inc.; 2006 (32) PTC 272. A reference
has also been made to two other judgments of the learned single Judge of this
Court. In Pfizer Products Inc. v. Rajesh Chopra and Ors. the learned single
Judge of this Court has rejected the argument of the defendant since the
defendant had not sold any goods in Delhi, no cause of action arose in Delhi.
In LG Corporation and Anr. v. Intermarket Electroplasters (P) Ltd. and Anr.
2006 (32) PTC 429, it was held that the fact of sale of infringing goods in
Delhi has the nexus and relevance with the lis that is involved in the case.

22\. On the other hand, the plea of learned Counsel for the defendant is that
the Cease and Desist notices were sent from Bombay and thus this Court would
have no territorial jurisdiction to try and determine the present suit.

23\. In my considered view such a plea on the part of the defendant cannot be
accepted for the reason that it is the case of the plaintiff that it is
carrying on business at Delhi and the same is confirmed in the affidavits of
evidence to which there is really no denial on the part of the defendant. I am
of the view that this Court would have the territorial jurisdiction to try and
determine the present suit.

24\. The issue is answered accordingly.

Issue No. 2

Whether the defendant is using 'Hawkins' as a trademark? OPP

25\. The crucial issue which arises for consideration in the present case is
the aforesaid issue which hinges on the aspect as to whether the defendant is
at all using the trademark HAWKINS of the plaintiff.

26\. In order to appreciate the said plea, it would be necessary to re-produce
some of the provisions of the said Act.

2\. Definitions and interpretation.-(1) In this Act , unless the context
otherwise requires, -

...

(m) ``mark'` includes a device, brand, heading, lable, ticket, name,
signature, word, letter, numeral, shape of goods, packaging or combination of
colours or any combination thereof.

...

(zb) ``trade mark'` means a mark capable of being represented graphically and
which is capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one person from
choose of others and may include shape of goods, their packaging and
combination of colours , and

i) in relation to Chapter XII (other than Section 107), a registered trade
mark or mark used in relation to goods or services for the purpose of
indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between
the goods or services, as the case may be, and some person having the right as
proprietor to use the mark, and

ii) in relation to other provisions of this Act, a mark used or proposed to be
used in relation to goods or services for the purpose of indicating or so to
indicate to a connection in the course of trade between the goods or services,
as the case may be, and some person having the right, either as proprietor or
by way of permitted user, to use the mark whether with or without any
indication of the identity of that person, and includes a certification trade
mark or collective mark.

29\. Infringement of registered trade marks.-

...

(2) A registered trade mark is infringed by a person who, not being a
registered proprietor or a person using by way of permitted use, uses in the
course of trade, a mark which because of-

(a) its identify with the registered trade mark and the similarly of the goods
or services covered by such registered trade mark or,

(b) its similarly to the registered trade mark and the identity or similarly
of the goods or services covered by such registered trade mark, or

(c) its identity with the registered trade mark and the identity of the goods
or services covered by such registered trade mark, is likely to cause
confusion on the part of the public, or which is likely to have an association
with the registered trade mark.

(3) In any case falling under Clause (c) of Sub-section (2), the court shall
presume that it is likely to cause confusion on the part of the public.

27\. The plea of the learned Counsel for the plaintiff is that in terms of
Section 29(2) of the said Act, a registered trademark is infringed if during
the course of trade, the mark has been used (even if it is not a trademark)
because of its identity with the registered trademark resulting in possibility
of confusion on the part of the public or having an association with the
trademark. Thus it was pleaded that once there is an infringement which falls
within the meaning of Section 29(2)(c) of the said Act, the presumption under
Section 29(3) of the said Act would come into play that it is likely to cause
confusion on the part of the public.

28\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff also drew the attention of this Court
to the provisions of Section 9(1)(b) of the said Act which reads as under:

9\. Absolute grounds for refusal of registration.-

(1) The trade marks -

...

(b) Which consist exclusively of marks or indications which may serve in trade
to designate the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, values,
geographical origin or the time of production f the goods or rendering of the
service or other characteristics of the goods or service.

...

shall not be registered:

Provided that a trade mark shall not be refused registration if before the
date of application for registration it has acquired a distinctive character
as a result of the use made of it or is a well-known trade mark.

29\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff emphasized that the plaintiff did not
dispute that the defendant can use the trade name to indicate that the spare
part is fit for use in a particular machinery but for the same it should be
accompanied with a disclaimer that the spare part is not manufactured by the
original manufacturer. The object should be to ensure that the public knows
whether the product purchased emanates from the plaintiff or somewhere else.
This plea is based on the limits of effect of the registration of trademark as
contained in Section 30(2)(d) of the said Act which is follows:

30\. Limits of effect of registered trade mark.-

...

(2) A registered trade mark is not infringed where-

...

(d) the use of a trade mark by a person in relation to goods adapted to form
part of, or to be accessory to, other goods or services in relation to which
the trade mark has been used without infringement of the right given by
registration under this Act or might for the time being be so used, if the
goods or services are so adapted, and neither the purpose nor the effect of
the use of the trade mark is to indicate, otherwise than in accordance with
the fact, a connection in the course of trade between any person and the goods
or services, as the case may be.

30\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff thus contended that the defendant's
gasket may mention that it can be used for different brands of pressure
cookers and specify the number of such brands including 'Hawkins' but the
defendant cannot single out 'Hawkins' because that would amount to trying to
take advantage of the reputation of the plaintiff's trademark.

31\. The second limb of the argument of learned Counsel for the plaintiff is
based on the reading of the provisions of Section 30(2)(d) of the said Act
which provides for protection for the defendant : i) if the use of the
trademark is reasonably necessary; and ii) neither the purpose nor the effect
of the use of the trade mark is to indicate a connection. Thus it should be an
honest practice which is necessary to describe the use.

32\. The plaintiff pleaded that it has come in the testimony of PW2 that the
dimensions of all pressure cookers are same and the annexures filed with the
testimony of PW2 would also show that the trade practice is not to use the
brand but to go by the nature of pressure cookers and thus it was not
necessary to state that the gasket was meant for Hawkins pressure cooker.
There was neither any necessity for the same nor it was an honest practice
which was a pre-requisite under Section 30(2)(d) of the said Act. The
reputation of a pressure cooker manufacturer could also be affected in case of
lack of proper quality of gasket as stated in the affidavit of PW1. The
plaintiff also drew strength from the manner of published price list. Learned
Counsel for the plaintiff fairly conceded that there was apparently no
judgment of any Indian Court on this aspect and sought to rely upon the case
of Gillette Co. v. LA- Laboratories Ltd. 2005 FSR (Vol.37) 808 which is a
judgment rendered by Court of Justice of the European Communities (Third
Chamber). In order to appreciate the aforesaid judgment which has formed the
basis of submission of both the learned Counsel for the parties, it would be
necessary to examine the factual matrix in which the said judgment was
delivered.

33\. The Gillette Group of Companies being registered proprietor of GILLETTE
and SENSOR were arrayed as the plaintiff No. 1 while the second plaintiff was
their exclusive licensee. The defendant was selling similar razors and blades
as being manufactured by the plaintiff under the mark PARASON FLEXOR in
packaging which had affixed to it a sticker bearing the words: 'All Parason
Flexor and Gillette Sensor handles are compatible with this blade'. The
proceedings were brought for infringement of trademark on the ground that the
defendant's packaging was such as to create a link in the mind of the
consumers between the defendant's product and those of the plaintiffs or at
least to give an impression that the defendant was authorised by virtue of a
license or for some other reason to use the GILLETTE and SENSOR marks. It was
held that using the plaintiff's marks in an eye-catching manner on its
packaging by the defendant amounted to an infringement of trade mark of the
plaintiff by the defendant. It was further held that both the blade and the
handle were essential parts of the razor and not spare parts or accessories
and thus the 'spare part' exception to infringement provided by Article 4 (2)
of the Finnish Law on Trade Marks would not apply.

34\. On an appeal, the Court of Appeal held that where a razor comprised a
handle and a blade and the consumer could replace the blade by a new one sold
separately, the blade could be regarded as a spare part. The information given
about the compatibility of the blades with both the defendant's and the
claimants handles was held to be useful to the consumers and thus the
defendant was held entitled to be able to demonstrate the need to mention the
GILLETTE and SENSOR marks in small standard lettering on the stickers of a
relatively modest size and it was held that it could not in any way give the
impression that there was a commercial connection between the claimants and
the defendant. It is against the said judgment that a further appeal was
preferred and various questions were referred to the European Court. In
substance, the questions referred to were:

(1) What are the criteria for deciding whether a product is a spare part or
accessory;

(2) The permissibility of the use of a third party's trade mark to be assessed
differently, depending on whether the product is like a spare part or
accessory;

(3) The parameters to determine the requirement that the use must be
'necessary' to indicate the intended purpose of a product and the difficulty
for a consumer to understand if there is no express reference to the third
party's trade mark.

(4) The factors to be taken into account while determining an honest
commercial practice and whether the mention of a third party's trademark in
connection with marketing of one's own product would constitute a reference to
the fact that the own product corresponds in quality and technicality or as
regards its other properties to the product designed by the third party's
trade mark.

(5) Whether the permissibility of user of a third party's trademark would be
affected on the ground that the economic operator who refers to the third
party's trademark also markets in addition to a spare part or accessory a
product of his own with which the spare part or accessory is intended to be
used with.

35\. The European Court gave its findings and some of the findings are
material for the present case which are as under:

(1) Use of the trademark by a third party who was not its owner was necessary
in order to indicate the intended purpose of a product marketed by that third
party where such use in practice constituted the only means of providing the
public with comprehensible and complete information on that intended purpose
in order to preserve the undistorted system of competition in the market for
that product. Thus the lawfulness or otherwise of the use of the trademark
depended on the necessity of the use to indicate the intended purpose of a
product.

(2) The condition of 'honest use' constituted in substance the expression of a
duty to act fairly in relation to the legitimate interests of the trade mark
owner. The use of the trademark would not be in accordance with honest
practices in industrial and commercial matters if for example it was done in
such a manner as to give the impression that there was a commercial connection
between the third party and the trademark owner or it affected the value of
the trade mark by taking unfair advantage of its distinctive character or
repute.

(3) The mere fact that third party used a trade mark of which it was not the
owner in order to indicate the intended purpose of the product which it
marketed did not necessarily mean that it was presenting it as being of the
same quality as or having equivalent properties to those of the product
bearing the trade mark. The relevant Article 6 is as under:

Limitation of the effects of a trade mark:

1\. The trademark shall not entitle the proprietor to prohibit a third party
from using, in the course of trade,....

c) the trade mark where it is necessary to indicate the intended purpose of a
product or service in particular as accessories or spare parts:

provided he uses them in accordance with honest practices in industrial or
commercial matters....

36\. The condition of honest use within the meaning of the aforesaid Article 6
(1) (c) of the Directive 89/104 was held to be in substance the expression of
a duty to act fairly in relation to the legitimate interests of the trade mark
owner. The use of the trademark was held not to be in accordance with honest
practices in industrial and commercial matters inter alia the following
situations:

i) It is done in such a manner as to give the impression that there is a
commercial connection between the third party and the trade mark owner;

ii) It affects the value of the trade mark by taking unfair advantage of its
distinctive character or repute;

iii) It entails the discrediting or denigration of that mark.

37\. Learned Counsel for the parties have also referred to another judgment of
the Chancery Division in Aktiebolaget Volvo and Anr. v. Heritage
(Leicester)Limited; Fleet Street Reports (2000). In the said case, the
plaintiff owned various registered trademarks including the word VOLVO. The
defendant-company had been an authorized Volvo dealer and thus licensed to use
the Volvo mark. The authorised dealership was revoked, but the defendant
continued to use the word Volvo in a similar (but not identical) style to the
registered mark, accompanied by the words 'independent' and 'specialist'
appearing in much smaller lettering so that the signs read 'Independent Volvo
Specialist'. The defendant used this wording on signs outside its garage, on
an entrance sign, and on its letterhead. The defendant was also alleged to
have used the word Volvo on a loyalty card and in the text of various letters
sent by the defendant to its customers. The defense was that by virtue of its
use of the words 'independent' and 'specialist' in its mark, the trademark was
not identical. Alternatively, the plea advanced by the defendant was that it
was the using the plaintiff's mark to indicate the kind of vehicle dealt with
or the intended purpose of its services and thus ought to be exempted.

38\. The para materia provisions under which such protection was sought under
the Indian Act would be Sections 30(1)(b) and 30(2)(d) of the said Act. It was
held that association of the words 'independent' and 'specialist' with the
word Volvo did not render the defendant's mark non identical to the registered
mark.

39\. The aforesaid judgment was relied by the learned Counsel for the
plaintiff to advance the plea that the same principle would apply to
indication given by the defendant on its product 'Suitable for: Hawkins
pressure cookers' as in the present case while learned Counsel for the
defendant emphasized the factual matrix of that case whereby the defendant had
past association with the plaintiff being the authorized dealer and was using
the two words in very small alphabets with the emphasis being on the trademark
VOLVO. In the present case, it was emphasized that the trademark of the
defendant was being used prominently and the indication given was for the
benefit of the customer.

40\. Learned Counsel for the defendant thus drew the attention of this Court
including the use of the stationery in the business of the defendant in
Aktiebolaget Volvo and Anr. v. Heritage (Leicester)Limited's case (supra). The
new letterhead mentioned other brands of the car. The lettering was in such a
manner that above the word 'Volvo' in very small capital letters, the word
'Independent' was used and below the word 'Volvo' in slightly larger capital
letters, but still much smaller than the letters used for the word Volvo, the
word 'specialist' was used.

41\. It has been held that the well settled principle is that the test of
honesty for the purposes of proviso is the one that has to be judged by an
objective standard and the appropriate question to be asked in relation to
that test in the present case is whether a reasonable motor service provider
would think the use complained of in the present case to be honest, or, rather
in accordance with honest practices in that business.

42\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff sought to derive strength from these
observations to contend that the defendant had to establish that the use of
the word 'Hawkins' in such a manner was part of the trade practice which the
defendant had failed to so establish.

43\. In the facts of the case Rattee, J found that in order to constitute
infringement what is necessary is the use of identical word in the course of
trade as a distinctive word, whether with or without other words or material
added to it. The test is of honest use in the commercial activity in which
such trader is involved and thus all circumstances surrounding the use
complained of and the context in which the use was made would be material.

44\. The important facts taken note of by the learned Judge are as under:

In my judgment the relevant context in the present case includes the
following. The defendant had been an authorized Volvo dealer for a long time.
Customers knew it as such and dealt with it as such. On the signs and the
letter head complained of by the claimants the word Volvo appears in a colour
very similar to that used by Volvo for its own logo. The word appears in
letters using a very similar font, though without the serifs, as I have
mentioned. The word appears on the signs and the letter head complained of
immediately alongside or underneath the names of other makes of cars for which
the defendant is and holds itself out as, an authorized dealer. The word Volvo
appears in lettering of similar size to that used in the name of both other
makes of car concerned. The word 'independent' and 'specialist' are printed in
much smaller and less obvious form than the word Volvo so that on looking at
the sign or the letter head the immediate impression is of the word Volvo
although if one looks more closely certainly one can see the words
'Independent' and 'Specialist' above and below it.

Certain letters have been written in the past to customers of the defendant by
the defendant to which I should refer as forming part of the relevant context
in which I have to consider the honesty of the use complained of. The first of
those letters was written before the defendant ceased to be an authorized
Volvo dealer. It was dated November 27, 1996 and apparently is a circular
letter sent out widely by the defendant to its customers. It includes the
following. It is headed 'Exciting News' and then says:

As a valued customer I am writing to inform you of two exciting developments
at Heritage Leicester (that is the name of the defendant).

First I am proud to announce that the Heritage Leicester team has recently
achieved accreditation for ISO9002 (BS5750). This reflects our commitment
always to offer you a level of service second to none by continually improving
the standards by which we operate our business on a day to day basis.

Secondly, at the end of this year we will become an Independent Volvo
Specialist, a member of the new 'Association of Independent Volvo
Specialists', a national organization of more than 30 members all of whom have
spent many years within the Volvo franchise.

As an Independent Volvo Specialist we will be able to provide you with an
unrivalled service by offering you the full range of Volvo services from our
fully trained Volvo staff utilizing our Volvo specialist equipment.

Furthermore we will be free to purchase on more competitive terms a wider
range of Volvo cars and original equipment parts therefore providing you with
greater choice and more competitive prices, making Volvo motoring more
affordable.

We will continue to offer for sale a wide range of new and used vehicles; all
our used vehicles will continue to have comprehensive Mechanical Breakdown
Insurance. Our After Sales Department will continue to sell genuine Volvo
parts and accessories and to service, repair and MOT your car to main dealer
standards. Our comprehensively equipped Body and Paint Centre will also remain
available enabling us to meet all of your Volvo motoring needs.

Within the next few weeks you will be receiving your personal Heritage
Leicester Loyalty Card which will entitle you to discounts on our full range
of Volvo services. In addition we will be offering monthly 'Special Offers' to
all Loyalty Card Holders.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your past custom and
look forward to your continued support in the future.

Be assured that our commitment to you, our valued Volvo customer, will be even
stronger than ever.

45\. The learned Judge recorded his conclusion as under:

In my judgment the defendant's use of the word Volvo, comprising the
registered trade mark of the claimants, in the context of its having
previously for so long been an authorized dealer of Volvos, was calculated to
cause at least confusion in the minds of customers, and probably, indeed, also
the belief that there was still, to put it at its lowest, some trading
connection between the defendant and Volvo. As I have said, I entirely reject
the submission that the letter which I have read, which was written to
customers in November 1996 could properly be said to have been calculated to
convey the impending change of status to the recipient. Using the word Volvo
in the manner and in the context which I have described in my judgment was so
obviously likely to cause at least confusion in the minds of the customers of
the defendant that no reasonable motor trader would say that such use
constituted honest use in the course of the motor trading and servicing
business. I do not overlook the fact that there is evidence that Volvo itself
took steps in December 1996 to notify such Volvo owning customers of the
defendant as the plaintiffs had records of the change of the defendant's
status, but, in my judgment, that is quite immaterial in considering the
honesty from the objective point of view of the defendant's conduct, not least
when the letter which I have described, which was written in November 1996,
was written before the defendant had any reason to believe that its customers
would be more frankly and clearly notified of the impending change of status
of Volvo itself.

The conclusion which I have just expressed in my judgment is in no way
inconsistent with the judgment of the European Court on which the defendant
placed reliance, that is to say the judgment of the case of BMW v. Deenik Case
C-63/97 in which the judgment of the European Court of Justice was given on
February 23 of this year. The reference which I have to it is as having been
reported in (1999) All E.R. (D.) 183. The situation before the Court in that
case was in some ways not dissimilar from that in the present case, although
in other ways very dissimilar, but it also concerned the question of whether a
trader, not being an authorized dealer, in that case, in BMW motor cars was
entitled to use the name BMW being a registered trade mark of the BMW
manufacturing company in the context of holding itself out as having
specialist expertise in servicing BMW cars. In its conclusion, paragraph 3,
the Court said this: 'Articles 5 to 7 of First Directive 89/104..., and those,
as I understand it, are Articles which were incorporated into the English 1994
Act in Sections 6, 10 and 11, ... do not entitle the proprietor of a trade
mark to prohibit a third party from using the mark for the purpose of
informing the public that he carries out the repair and maintenance of goods
covered by that trade mark and put on the market under that mark by the
proprietor or with his consent, or that he has specialized or is a specialist
in the sale or the repair and maintenance of such goods....

and then come the important words for present purposes:

...unless the mark is used in a way that may create the impression that there
is a commercial connection between the other undertaking and the trade mark
proprietor, and in particular that the reseller's business is affiliated to
the trade mark proprietor's distribution network or that there is a special
relationship between the two undertakings.

In my judgment the proviso expressed in that paragraph of the European Court
of Justice's judgment in the BMW case reflects the honest proviso as I may
call it, to Section 11(2) of the Trade Marks Act, 1994, in the context of a
case such as that which was before the European Court and that which is before
me.

46\. The learned Judge thus found that the use was not in accordance with the
honest practices in industrial or commercial matters.

47\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff also referred to the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Kaviraj Pandit Durga Dutt Sharma v. Navaratna Pharmaceutical
Laboratories 1965 SCR 737 where in para 28 it was observed as under:

In an action for infringement, the plaintiff must, no doubt, make out that the
use of the defendant's mark is likely to deceive, but where the similarity
between the plaintiff's and the defendant's mark is so close either visually,
phonetically or otherwise and the court reaches the conclusion that there is
an imitation, no further evidence is required to establish that the
plaintiff's rights are violated. Expressed in another way, if the essential
features of the trademark of the plaintiff have been adopted by the defendant,
the fact that the get-up, packing and other writing or marks on the goods or
on the packets in which he offers his goods for sale show marked differences,
or indicate clearly a trade origin different from that of the registered
proprietor of the mark would be immaterial; whereas in the case of passing
off, the defendant may escape liability if he can show that the added matter
is sufficient to distinguish his goods form those of the plaintiff.

When once the use by the defendant of the mark which is claimed to infringe
the plaintiff's mark is shown to be 'in the course of trade', the question
whether there has been an infringement is to be decided by the comparison of
the two mark.

48\. A careful consideration of the aforesaid judgments and the pleas advanced
by learned Counsel for the parties shows that the complete emphasis of the
plaintiff is on the fact that it owns the registered trademark HAWKINS and
thus has a statutory right to exclusive use in relation to its pressure
cookers and spare parts including gaskets. Thus the use of any identical or
deceptively similar trademark by any unauthorized person in relation to goods
including gaskets amounts to an infringement under Section 29 of the said Act
irrespective of any addition either preceding or succeeding it. Thus the added
matter to the trademark by the defendant is pleaded to be irrelevant for the
purposes of infringement. It is, however, not disputed that there is an
exception to the same as envisaged under Section 30 of the said Act but the
onus is on the defendant to prove that it falls within the exception so
envisaged.

49\. It is thus the plea of the plaintiff that in order for the defendant to
seek protection under Section 30 of the said Act, it must be proved that a)Use
of the trademark Hawkins by the defendant is reasonably necessary to indicate
that the gaskets are so adapted; b) Neither the purpose nor the effect of such
indication is to show a connection in the course of trade between the goods of
the defendant and those of the plaintiff, c) Use of the trademark by the
defendant is in accordance with an honest practice in industrial or commercial
matters and d) it is not an endeavor on the part of the defendant to take
unfair advantage of the mark of the plaintiff or is detrimental to the repute
of the mark of the plaintiff.

50\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff thus contended that the only honest use
of the trademark is in respect of distinction between pressure cookers with
outside fitting lid and pressure cookers with inside fitting lid and a number
of pressure cookers under different trademarks are sold which are all similar
to the lid of Hawkins pressure cookers. Thus the user of only name of
'Hawkins' to show suitability of the product is stated to be not an honest
business practice but an endeavor to encash on the goodwill and reputation of
the brand of HAWKINS.

51\. Learned Counsel for the defendant has, however, pleaded that the
defendant is manufacturing the gasket under the registered trademark MAYUR
with the device of PEACOCK and has large and extensive sale because of its
product's good quality, good market and sales promotion. Thus there was no
occasion for the defendant to infringe the trademark of the plaintiff. The
defendant's line of business is one of ancillary nature and the indication
given on the packaging is an essential information to the customers so that
they can select an accessory of a particular specification which is suitable
for the main article. The expression ' suitable for HAWKINS pressure cookers'
is thus said to fall within the exception of Section 30(2)(d) of the said Act.
The indication is stated to be only to show compatibility of the product of
the defendant with that of the plaintiff. The filing of the suit is alleged to
be motivated by the oblique object of the plaintiff to have monopoly in the
market of spare parts/accessories for its pressure cookers including gaskets
and the garb of infringement of its trademark is being used for the said
purpose.

52\. In order to further substantiate its plea, learned Counsel for the
defendant has referred to the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Second
Circuit in the matter of The Electric Auto-Lite Company v. P and D
Manufacturing Co. Inc. reported as (44 USPQ 377 (2nd Circuit 1940). The case
related to alleged infringement of patent and it was held that replacement of
new for worn out parts in devices sold by the plaintiff would not amount to
infringement of the patent of the plaintiff although part replaced includes
portion not worn out where it would cost more to replace the worn out part
alone. The plaintiff with a third party and other manufacturers published a
joint catalogue in which appeared side by side the service parts of both the
companies. The sale of the parts by such third party jointly advertised in
this way was held not to be infringement of the plaintiff's patent of machine
and that the defendant could not be contributory infringer by sale of parts by
such third parties to the users.

53\. Further in Taylor Instrument Companies v. Fawley-Brost Company 59 USPQ
384 (7th Circuit 1943) it was held that having the right to make and sell
chart designed to fit plaintiff's (Taylor)machine and the advertisement
thereof does not support the conclusion of infringement of the trademark and
the machine of the plaintiff. It was held that the defendant can advise public
on price card ( carrying prominently defendant's name) bearing 'TAY', that it
has for sale 'Chart to fit' such machine sold under the trademark 'Taylor'.

54\. I have given deep thoughts to the submissions of learned Counsel for the
parties conscious of the fact that insofar as the Indian Courts are concerned,
it is an unchartered area. However, the observations and views expressed in
Aktiebolaget Volvo and Anr. v. Heritage (Leicester)Limited's Case (supra) and
Gillette Co. v. LA-Laboratories Ltd's Case (supra) have material bearing in
view of the provisions of the said Act which are similar in nature and intent.
(55)A reading of Section 29 of the said Act shows that the use of a registered
trade mark by a third party in the course of trade or user of a deceptively or
identical trademark is not permissible when it renders the use of the mark
likely to be taken as being used as a trademark. The provision of the said Act
would work in the following manner:

(1) The first party has to be owner of the registered trademark;

(2) The second party uses the mark in the course of trade which is identical
with or deceptively similar to trademark in relation to goods and services in
respect of which the trademark is registered;

(3) The use is in such a manner as to render the use of the trademark by the
second party likely to be taken as being used as a trademark.

56\. If the provision is read in the aforesaid manner, the interpretation put
forth by the learned Counsel for the defendant has to be accepted that though
the expression used is a mark insofar as the second party is concerned, in
order to constitute an infringement the use of the said mark should be such as
to lead to deception of it being taken to be used as a trademark.

57\. The second aspect is the wording of Section 29 to the effect 'use of the
mark likely to be taken as being used as a trade mark'. Thus the deception
should be such that the purchasing public would assume that the mark is
indicative of the same being a trademark of the first party.

58\. The exception to the aforesaid is provided in Section 30 of the said Act.
Section 30(1) of the said Act stipulates that use of a registered trade mark
is not prevented if the purpose is of identifying goods or services as that of
the proprietor and such use should be: a) in accordance with honest practices
in industrial or commercial matters and is not such as to take unfair
advantage of or be detrimental to the distinctive character or repute of the
trade mark. Section 30(2)(a) of the said Act provides an exception where the
user is in relation to goods or services inter alia for its intended purpose.
Another exception is Section 30(2)(d) of the said Act which permits the use of
a trade mark where it is accessory to other goods or services to which the
trademark has been used without infringement of the right given by
registration if such use is reasonably necessary in order to indicate that the
goods or services are so adapted and the purpose and the effect of the use
should not be to indicate a connection in the course of trade between any
person and the goods or services.

59\. It is the aforesaid principles which have been kept in mind by the
Chancery Division in Aktiebolaget Volvo and Anr. v. Heritage (Leicester)
Limited's case (supra) and the Court Justice of the European Communities
(Third Chamber) in Gillette Co. v. LA-Laboratories Ltd's case (supra).

60\. It is trite to say that a judgment is as good as its facts. The facts of
the Aktiebolaget Volvo and Anr. v. Heritage (Leicester)Limited's case (supra)
stare one in the face. There was a past association between the plaintiff and
the defendant as the defendant was an authorized Volvo dealer. Such dealership
was revoked. It is thereafter the defendant started to use the work VOLVO in a
similar style to the registered trademark accompanied by the prefix
'independent' and the suffix 'specialist' but both in much smaller lettering.
Not only that, past customers of Volvo were also said to be informed
accordingly. The object and intent of the defendant was clear that it wanted
to indicate a connection with VOLVO and such user could hardly be called as an
honest practice in industrial and commercial use. It squarely fell within the
parameters of the defendant trying to take unfair advantage of the distinctive
character and repute of the trademark VOLVO. Thus the mere use of suffix or
prefix would not make any difference. It is in view thereof that the learned
Judge had observed that the test of honesty for the purposes of infringement
has to be judged by an objective standard and in the given facts of the case,
the test would be whether a reasonable motor service provider would think that
the use complained of is honest or amounts to an honest practice.

61\. If the aforesaid test is applied to the facts of the present case, it is
found that the defendant has its own well established trademark MAYUR and the
device of PEACOCK. The defendant has prominently displayed both the trademark
and the device on the packaging. The trademark MAYUR has been put prominently
in red on the green coloured packaging, both in the front and the back. At the
back of the packaging of the defendant's product, there is a sticker
prominently displaying that the product is manufactured and marketed by
Murugan Enterprises.

In the front of the packaging of the defendant's product, in a small print, it
is written 'Suitable for: Hawkins Pressure Cookers'. The front and back of the
packaging of the product of the defendant are being re-produced herein to
fully appreciate the visual impact of the packaging.

62\. The aforesaid in my considered view leaves no manner of doubt that no
reasonable person or purchaser can ever assume a trade connection between
MAYUR brand of gaskets and Hawkins. It is not a case where the defendant is
seeking to take advantage of the trademark of the plaintiff or seeking to show
any connection therewith. The approach which is apparent from the manner of
use of this is only to show the suitability of the product as an ancillary one
to be used in the Hawkins pressure cookers. Such a use thus would clearly fall
within the exception carved out under Section 30 of the said Act. Further the
evidence placed on record shows that the object of use of the trademark is
reasonably necessary to indicate the fitness of gasket for the HAWKINS brand
of pressure cookers.

63\. The conclusion in Gillette Co. v. LA-Laboratories Ltd's case (supra) is
predicated on a packaging, which would create a link in the mind of the
consumers between the defendant's products and those of the plaintiff's or at
least to give an impression that the defendant was authorised by virtue of a
license or for some other reason to use GILLETTE and SENSOR marks. As
discussed above, this was not so in the present case. In fact, the trademark
of the defendant is what is prominently displayed. The present case is, thus,
one where the condition of 'honest use' is satisfied, since one cannot
decipher a commercial connection between the plaintiff and the defendant by
use of the word HAWKINS by the defendant. It is, thus, not a case where there
is dilution of the value of the trademark of the plaintiff by unfair advantage
being taken of its distinctive character or repute by the defendant. The use
is more in the nature of the intending purpose of the product marketed by the
defendant.

64\. There is also force in the contention of the learned Counsel for the
defendant that the concept of pressure cookers with inside fitting lid and
pressure cookers with outside fitting lid and there being two kinds of gaskets
was not even forming part of the pleadings and the case set up is thus clearly
an afterthought when the affidavits of evidence were being filed. The
affidavits of evidence in this behalf, in fact, for the first time, set out
this plea of pressure cookers with an outside fitting lid and inside fitting
lid seeking to categorize them as such. The plaintiff has no objection if the
defendant indicates the fitness of the gasket for the complete line of
pressure cookers with inside fitting lid categories like Hawkins but objects
to the use of Hawkins alone. The defendant in the affidavit has emphasized
that the gaskets manufactured by them are specifically made for them to be
fitted in the Hawkins pressure cookers. The plaintiff also manufactures all
kinds of ancillary products including gaskets. The object of filing of the
suit thus appears to be to create a monopoly over such ancillary items so that
no third party is able to sell the same in the market. This course of action
is not permissible as it is really not in dispute that the defendant can carry
out an ancillary industry of manufacturing such gaskets.

65\. I am thus of the considered view that the issue has to be answered
against the plaintiff as the defendant is not using the trademark Hawkins.

Issue No. 3:

If issue No. 2 is answered in favor of the plaintiff : Whether the defendant
is infringing the trademark 'Hawkins' of the plaintiff? OPP (66)This issue is
predicated on a finding to be arrived on the previous issue and only if the
defendant is using the mark Hawkins as a trademark, the question would arise
whether the defendant is infringing the trademark. Since the use of the
defendant is only indicative of its purpose and is not being used as a
trademark, there can be no question of the defendant infringing the trademark
of the plaintiff. The issue is accordingly answered against the plaintiff.

Issue No. 4:

If issue No. 2 is answered in favor of the plaintiff : Whether the defendant
is passing of its goods as that of the plaintiff? OPP

67\. Once again the defendant passing off its goods as that of the plaintiff
would not arise in the present case in view of the fact that the defendant is
not using the trademark of the plaintiff nor is it infringing the trademark.
The mode and manner of use shows only the purpose of user and there is no
indication of any business connections between the two. The prominent display
of the own trademark of the defendant along with prominent display of the
address of its manufacturers as against the same is indication of the
suitability of the gaskets for Hawkins pressure cookers and leaves no manner
of doubt that the present case is not one of passing off by the defendant of
its goods as that of the plaintiff.

68\. The issue is answered against the plaintiff.

Issue No. 5:

Whether the plaintiff is entitled to damages/rendition of accounts? If so, the
extent and period thereof? OPP

69\. Learned Counsel for the plaintiff sought damages and in that behalf had
referred to the judgments of this Court in Times Incorporated v. Lokesh
Srivastava and Anr. 2005 (30) PTC 3 (Delhi) and Hero Honda Motors Ltd. v.
Shree Assuramji Scooters 2006 (32) PTC 117 (Delhi). However, the question of
damages would arise if there is any infringement by the defendant and thus it
is not necessary to go into the aspect of quantification of damages since
there is no infringement by the defendant. The evidence filed by the plaintiff
also does not establish any case for any damages other than the plea of
general damages which may be awarded in case of infringement of trademark of
copyright.

70\. Issue is answered against the plaintiff.

Issue No. 6:

Relief.

71\. In view of the findings arrived at, the suit of the plaintiff is without
any merit and the same is dismissed with costs.

72\. The decree sheet be drawn up accordingly.

73\. Interim Orders stand vacated.

