

Delhi High Court

Bimal Govindji Shah vs Panna Lal Chandu Lal on 24 April, 1997

Equivalent citations: 1997 IIIAD Delhi 771, 1997 (2) ARBLR 76 Delhi, 67 (1997)
DLT 65

Author: M Sharma

Bench: M Sharma

JUDGMENT M.K. Sharma, J.

(1) The plaintiff instituted the present suit praying for perpetual in
junction against the defendant restraining passing off the trade mark of the
plaintiff and also for damages and rendition of accounts. The plaintiff has
been carrying on his business of manufacturing and marketing of hardware goods
under the name and style of M/s. Acme Industries. It is stated that during the
year 1979 the plaintiff bonafide and honestly adopted and conceived the trade
mark Flora in relation to his aforesaid goods. The plaintiff states that the
said mark is being used by him since then openly, continuously, exclusively
and extensively. In the same year the plaintiff also honestly devised the
label/wrapper/ carton entitled Flora in a attractive lettering style to which
the plaintiff is the first adopter, originator and author. It is stated that
on account of continuous, regular & extensive use of the said trade mark Flora
in relation to hardware goods of the plaintiff the said trade mark has come to
be associated with the name of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has also applied
for the registration of the said trade mark Flora in the Trade Marks Registry
under the provisions of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, which
application is pending. The petitioner has also made large scale publicity in
respect of the aforesaid trade mark Flora of the plaintiff in view of which
the said trade mark has acquired secondary meaning coming to be exclusively
identified and recognised with the plaintiff. It is stated that the plaintiff
received a legal notice dated 10.6.1996 served upon him by the defendant
through its Counsel, that the defendant is a registered proprietor and owner
of the said trade mark Flora in respect of hardwares on account of its
adoption by it during the year 1987. By the aforesaid notice the plaintiff was
asked to stop its user. In view of the aforesaid legal notice received from
the defendant and also in view of the fact that the registration of the
aforesaid trade mark has been obtained by the defendant behind the back of the
plaintiff and through suppression of facts and also in view of the fact that
the defendant has dishonestly and mala fide pirated the trade
mark/label/wrapper with trade mark Flora of the plaintiff the present suit has
been instituted by the plaintiff.

(2) It has also been brought to the notice of this Court that the plaintiff
has filed an application for rectification of the registration of the trade
mark granted in favour of the defendant and the said application was filed on
21.6.1996 which is pending disposal. Alongwith the aforesaid suit the
plaintiff also filed an application under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2, Civil
Procedure Code which was registered as I.A.No. 6641/1996, seeking for
temporary in junction restraining the defendants from using the aforesaid
trade mark in relation to hardware goods during the pendency of the suit.

(3) Summons and notices of the suit as also of the in junction application
having been issued, the defendant filed the written statement as also reply to
the application under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2, CPC. The defendant also filed
counter claim against the plaintiff in the present suit. Besides the defendant
also filed an application under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure praying for a temporary in junction restraining the plaintiff from
manufacturing, selling, offering for sale, and/or directly or indirectly
dealing with hardware goods under the trade mark Flora or any other trade mark
identical with or deceptively similar to the trade mark Flora of the
defendant. The said application was registered as I.A.No. 8765/ 1996. Reply to
the said application has also been filed by the plaintiff.

(4) The defendant's case as disclosed from the written statement and reply as
also from the application filed under Order 39 Rules 1 & 2, Civil Procedure
Code is that the defendant has been continuously using the trade mark Flora
since 29.10.1987 and that the defendant is the registered proprietor of the
said mark being registered on 29.10.1987. The further defense of the defendant
is that the invoices and documentary evidence filed by the plaintiff are false
and fabricated. The defendant further pleaded that the present proceedings
initiated by the plaintiff are liable to be dismissed on the ground of laches
and unexplained delay.

(5) I have heard the learned Counsel appearing for the parties on the issue as
to whether the plaintiff is entitled to grant of a temporary in junction as
prayed for in the suit or whether the defendant is entitled to grant of such
an in junction, it being the registered proprietor of the trade mark Flora in
respect of the hardware goods against the plaintiff as prayed for in its
application.

(6) The learned Counsel appearing for the parties advanced their arguments at
length and I propose to dispose of both the applications (I.A.No. 6641/1996
filed by the plaintiff and I.A.No. 8765/1996 filed by the defendant) under
Order 39 Rules 1 & 2, Civil Procedure Code respectively by this common order.

(7) For the purpose of adjudicating the issues posed before me it would be
necessary to deal with the main questions which arise for my prima facie
determination, (I)whether the plaintiff not being a registered proprietor of
trade mark Flora in respect of hardware goods can maintain an action for
passing off against the defendant in respect of the use of the same which has
been registered in its favour in respect of the said goods; (ii) whether the
present application filed by the plaintiff seeking for temporary in junction
is liable to be dismissed on the ground of unexplained delay on the part of
the plaintiff in approaching this Court, in view of the fact that the
defendant was registered as proprietor of the trade mark Flora in respect of
hardware goods in 1987, whereas the present suit was instituted only in 1996.

(8) Under Section 28(1) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act (hereinafter
called the Act) registration of a trade mark gives to the registered
proprietor thereof exclusive right to use the same in relation to the goods in
respect of which it has been registered. Accordingly, in the present case in
terms of the aforesaid provision the defendant being the registered proprietor
of the trade mark Flora in respect of hardware goods could claim to have the
exclusive right to use the same in relation to hardware goods in respect of
which it is registered. But when the opening words of Section 28(1) are
noticed which opens with the expression "subject to other provisions" it is
crystal clear that the aforesaid right conferred on a registered proprietor is
not an absolute right as the same is made subject to other provisions of the
Act. The aforesaid view is fortified by the provisions of Section 27(2) of the
Act which provides that "nothing in this Act shall be deemed to affect rights
of action against any person for passing off goods as the goods of another
person or the remedies in respect thereof". Accordingly, it is manifestly
clear that Section 28 of the Act and other provisions come within the over-
riding effect of Section 27(2) of the Act. Similarly, the provisions of
Section 33 of the Act also saves vested right of a prior user when it lays
down that "nothing in the Act shall entitle the proprietor or a registered
user of a registered trade mark to interfere with or restrain the use by any
person of a trade mark identical with or nearly resembling it in relation to
goods in relation to which that person or a predecessor in title of his has
continuously used that trade mark from a prior date". THUS a conjoint reading
of the aforesaid provisions persuaded me to conclude on a reading of the
aforesaid provisions conjointly the natural deduction is that the right
conferred by Section 28(1) of the Act in favour of a registered proprietor of
a trade mark is not an absolute right but is subject to the other provisions
of the Act namely - Sections 27(2) and 33. It is also to be noted that neither
Section 28 nor any other provision of the Act prohibits an action for passing
off by an anterior user of a trade mark against a registered user of the same.
In other words registration of a trade mark does not provide a defense to the
proceedings for passing off as provided for under Section 27(2) of the Act. A
prior user of a trade mark is entitled to maintain an action against a
subsequent user of identical trade mark including registered user thereof.

(9) In N.R.Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation; , a Division Bench of this Court
held that registration of a trade mark under the Act would be irrelevant in an
action for passing off. It was further held that the registration of a trade
mark in fact does not confer any new right on the proprietor thereof than what
already existed at common law without registration of the mark. In the
aforesaid decision the Division Bench noticed and relied upon, on the Division
Bench decision of this Court in Century Traders v. Roshan Lal Duggar & Co. .
In the said decision of this Court (Century Traders) while construing Sections
27(2) and 106 of the Act it was held as follows ; "FROM a reading of the above
sections it is clear that registration of mark in the trade mark registry
would be irrelevant in an action for passing off. Thus, the law is pretty well
settled that in order to succeed at this stage the appellant had to establish
user of the aforesaid mark prior in point of time than the impugned user by
the respondents. The registration of the said mark or similar mark prior in
point of time to user by the appellant is irrelevant in an action for passing
off and the mere presence of the mark in the register maintained by the Trade
Mark Registry did not prove its user by the persons in whose names the mark
was registered and was irrelevant for the purposes of deciding the application
for interim in junction unless evidence had been led or was available of user
of the registered trade marks. In our opinion, these clear rules of law were
not kept in view by the learned Single Judge and led him to commit an error".

(10) It is also to be noted that the Special Leave Petition preferred as
against the decision of the Division Bench in N.R. Dongre's case (supra) was
heard by the Supreme Court and was dismissed by a speaking order upholding the
decision of the Division Bench of this Court (See 1996 Ptc (16) 583 (SC); N.R.
Dongre v. Whirlpool Corporation).

(11) In the decision of the Bombay High Court in Consolidated Foods
Corporation v. Brandon & Co. Pvt. Ltd. , it was held that registration under
the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater
right than what already existed in common law and at equity without
registration. It was further held that registration itself does not create a
trade mark and that the trade mark exists independently of the registration
which merely affords further protection under the Statute. The Bombay High
Court further went on to hold that common law rights are left wholly
unaffected and that priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior
to priority in registration.

(12) Reference may also be made to a Single Bench decision of this Court in
M/s. L.D. Malhotra Industries v. M/s. Ropi Industries; reported in Ilr 1976(1)
Delhi page 278. The aforesaid decision in M/s. L.D. Malhotra's case (supra)
was noticed in the decision of Division Bench of this Court in Century
Traders' case (supra). In N.R. Dongre (supra) the Division Bench of this
Court, after noticing the aforesaid judgments, held that under Section 27(2)
an action for passing off against a registered user of trade mark is
maintainable at the instance of a prior user of the same, similar or identical
mark and since such a remedy is available against the registered user of trade
mark, an interim in junction restraining him to use the mark can also be
granted to make the remedy effective.

(13) In Imperial Group Limited v. Philip Morris & Co. Ltd., reported in Fleet
Street Reports (1982) page 72, Lawton L.J. held that the use of the mark Merit
was limited in size, time and area and that it was not accompanied, nor did
the plaintiffs want it to be, by what they call "Press Support" and the
advertising was small in amount and that compared with the ordinary way in
which the plaintiffs marketed new brands of cigarettes, the effort they put
into introducing the Merit brand was tiny, but not so tiny as to be de-
minimis. The Court considered as to whether such use could be said to be bona
fide and while considering that the Court considered the judgment in
Electrolux Ltd. v. Electrix Ltd., (1954) 71 Rpc 23 and found that according to
the said judgment in that case a bonafide use should be "ordinary and
genuine", "perfectly genuine", "substantial in amount", "a real commercial use
on a substantial scale" and not some "fictitious or colourable use but a real
or genuine use". In the same judgment Lord Lawton L.J. observed that the
plaintiffs never intended to use the mark "Merit" in the ordinary course of
their business; their use of it was not substantial; it was not a real use in
any commercial sense, and that it was a colourable stratagem for making their
trade rivals think that they were using the mark "Merit" in a way which gave
it the protection of the Act. In the same judgment Lord Shaw L.J. observed
that unlike copyright, a trade mark does not arise from the mere use of the
word or words or a formula or a mark; it derives from the use of words or
marks in relation to a course of trade in goods giving rise to a goodwill
connecting the trade with the goods by reason of the trade mark under which
the goods are marketed. He concluded that where, in relation to particular
goods, there is no such course of trading as to give rise to a goodwill, there
is no interest to be protected by a trade mark, and no such mark can subsist
in vacuo.

(14) At this stage I may also appropriately refer to another Single Bench
Decision of this Court in Jai prakash Gupta v. Vishal Aluminium Mfg. Co.,
reported in 1996 Ptc (16) page 575=63 (1996) Dlt 947. In para 10 of the said
judgment the learned Single Judge held that there is no dispute and can be
none with the legal proposition that as between the two parties, who proposed
to use a particular trade mark the person who designs the mark will get
preference over the other and in case of one party proposing to use the mark
against the actual user, the later will take precedence. The learned Single
Judge further held that in between the two parties clarifying actual user as
against the prior user, the party, who is prior in point of time will have the
advantage over the other. The Bench held that even in regard to the prior
registration of the trade mark as against the prior user the action of the
later will prevail.

(15) The legal proposition that emerges from all the aforesaid decisions is
that the registration is immaterial in a case of passing off and the criteria
for granting an in junction is the prior user of the trade mark by the
parties. In other words, "in an action for passing off, in order to succeed in
getting an interim in junction the plaintiff has to establish user of the mark
prior in point of time than the impugned user by the defendant and that the
registration of the mark or similar mark prior in point of time to user of the
plaintiff is irrelevant in an action of passing off and the mere presence of
the mark in the register maintained by the Trade Mark Registry did not prove
its user by the persons in whose names the mark was registered and it is
irrelevant for the purposes of deciding the application for interim in
junction unless evidence had been led or was available of user of the
registered trade mark". (Jai Prakash Gupta's case (supra).

(16) In view of the aforesaid legal proposition emerging from the various
decisions it is manifestly clear that the registration of the trade mark Flora
obtained by the defendant in respect of hardware goods in 1987 would be of
little consequence if the plaintiff could establish user of the said mark
Flora in respect of the hardware goods prior in point of time than the
impugned user by the defendant. It is admitted position as disclosed from the
pleadings of the parties that the defendant has been using the trade mark
Flora in respect of hardware goods only from the year 1987 whereas it is the
specific case of the plaintiff that he has been using the said trade mark in
respect of his hardware goods from the year 1979. In support of the aforesaid
claim the plaintiff has also produced on record documentary evidence in the
nature of carbon copies of bills and invoices. My attention has been drawn to
some of the aforesaid bills and invoices filed by the plaintiff in support of
his contention that it has been using the trade mark Flora in respect of
hardware goods from 1979. The contention of the learned Counsel appearing for
the defendant is that some of the carbon copies of the aforesaid bills and
invoices are dubious and of doubtful character and that atleast some of them
are fabricated for the purpose of the present case. The learned Counsel
appearing for the defendant particularly drew my attention to Bill No. 048
dated 5.6.1980 in the name of Sr. Raghvendra Agencies, Bangalore and same Bill
No. 048 dated 5.6.1980 in the name of M/s. V. Samaras am & Co., Bangalore, and
submitted that both the bills bear the same order No. 048 and same date. He
also drew my attention to document Nos. 47 & 48 in plaintiff's list of
documents dated 28.10.1996. According to him the document No. 47 which is Bill
No. 292 dated 21.10.1981 shows that the invoice is against Brass double ball
catches while the transport receipt shows that Electrical brass parts have
been sent against invoice No. 292. According to him same is the case with
documents No. 99,101,173,174,175 and 176 of the list dated 8.10.1996. As
against the aforesaid allegations in respect of particular bills and invoices,
raised on behalf of the defendant the plaintiff has given explanations by
filing an affidavit which is on record. In view of the explanation in respect
of the said bills by the plaintiff the issue as to whether the said bills were
fabricated or not is a matter to be decided after a full fledged trial.

(17) It is no doubt true that an arguable dispute has been raised by the
defendant as regards some of the bills and invoices but at this stage, as was
held in the decision Jai Prakash Gupta (supra) it would not be appropriate
without further evidence to give any finding about the said dispute raised by
the defendant as to whether the plaintiff is guilty of fabrication or not,
which would be a matter to be considered and decided during the course of the
hearing of the suit.

(18) However, on going through the records of the case I find that prima facie
the plaintiff has been able to place atleast some documents on record namely
the carbon copies of the bills and invoices from 1979 onwards to show that the
plaintiff has been using the trade mark Flora in respect of hardware goods. As
against such documents the defendant has failed to lead and/or produce any
evidence to prove that it has been using the trade mark Flora in respect of
hardware goods even from 1987 i.e. even after obtaining the registration. Thus
the material placed on record prima facie proves and establishes the case of
the plaintiff that the plaintiff is the prior user of the trade mark Flora
with respect to hardware goods than the defendant and that its application
seeking for registration is pending before the Competent Authority as also its
application seeking for rectification of the trade mark FLORA.

(19) I have also given my thoughtful consideration to the other arguments
advanced by the learned Counsel for the defendant that the present application
filed by the plaintiff seeking for temporary in junction is liable to be
dismissed in view of inordinate delay on the part of the plaintiff in
approaching this Court. According to the learned Counsel the registration of
the trade mark Flora in respect of hardware goods was granted by the Competent
Authority to the defendant in the year 1987 whereas the present petition has
been filed only in the year 1996. On consideration of the records of the case
I find that apart from the fact that the plaintiff has given some explanation
explaining the delay in approaching this Court, the defendant is also equally
liable on the same count in view of the fact that although it was to the
knowledge of the defendant that the plaintiff had been using the same trade
mark in respect of the same material/ goods, it never approached this Court
claiming relief against the plaintiff except for giving a legal notice to the
plaintiff only in the year 1996 and did not even institute a suit in this
Court except for raising a counter claim and filing an application under Order
39 Rules 1 & 2, Civil Procedure Code in the present suit. Therefore, for the
delay, if any, in my considered opinion, both the plaintiff and the defendant
are equally liable. However, in an act of passing off which is an act of
deceit fresh cause of action accrues at every moment of time during which the
breach is committed. In other words, in a matter of passing off by the
defendant by selling their goods as if they are the goods of the plaintiff
gives a continuous and recurring cause of action and therefore, fresh period
of limitation begins to run at every moment of time during which such breach
is committed. In M/s. Bengal Waterproof Limited v. M/s. Bombay Waterproof
Manufacturing Company & Another, , the Supreme Court after noticing the
provisions of Section 22 of the Limitation Act, 1963 held that as the act of
passing off is an act of deceit and tort every time when such tortuous act or
deceit is committed by the defendant the plaintiff gets a fresh cause of
action to come to the Court by appropriate proceedings. IN the light of the
aforesaid settled legal principle, in my considered opinion, the present
application filed by the plaintiff seeking for temporary in Junction and for
that matter even the suit cannot be dismissed on the ground of delay.

(20) Considering all the aforesaid factors, the in junction as prayed for in
the application is granted in favour of the plaintiff and against the
defendant restraining the defendant, their servants, agents, dealers and
representatives from manufacturing, selling, offering for sale under the trade
mark Flora in respect of hardware goods or any other trade mark identical with
or deceptively similar to the trade mark Flora of the plaintiff till the
disposal of the suit. Consequently, the application filed by the plaintiff
(I.A. No. 6641 /1996) stands allowed to the extent indicated above and the
application (I.A. No. 8765/96) filed by the defendant stands dismissed.
However, in the interest of justice I deem it appropriate to put a condition
on the aforesaid order of temporary in junction granted by me that the
plaintiff shall maintain account of the sale and submit the same quarterly to
this Court till the disposal of the suit. BEFORE parting with the records of
the case, I may however observe that whatever, opinion and observations are
made by me herein are my prima facie view for the purpose of deciding the in
junction application and shall not in any manner be interpreted as the final
opinion on the merits of the case.

LA.No. 6641/96 allowed/I.A, No. 8765/96 dismissed.

