

Delhi High Court

M/S. Veerumal Praveen Kumar vs M/S. Needle Industries (India) ... on 24
August, 2001

Equivalent citations: 93 (2001) DLT 600

Author: S K Kaul

Bench: D Gupta, S K Kaul

ORDER Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.

1\. A suit was filed by the respondents against the appellant herein for
permanent injunction and recovery of damages under sections 105 and 106 of the
Trade and merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the Act)
read with section 1962 of the Copyright Act, 1957. The suit is in respect of
Snap Fasteners and the respondents claimed relief against packaging with the
colour scheme orange and grey and a lay out and get up identical or
deceptively similar being used by the appellant to that of the respondents
under the copyright of 'Pony Card' and/or use of the trademark '555' and/or
impugned cards bearing the trademark '555' apart from claiming a money decree
for damages. Respondent no.1 stated in the plaint that they were a subsidiary
of a British manufacturer of hand sewing needles, kitting pins and other
similar products and during its growth benefited from the technology and
skilled personnel from respondent no.2. There was a license agreement between
the two respondents during the period 1963 to 1981 to manufacture press studs.
Respondent no.1 further claimed that it had sold products bearing trademark
'555' during the period from 1963 to 1981. it was further alleged in the
plaint that though the license agreement between the two respondents came to
an end in 1981 the trademark '555' had till the date of the suit been retained
on the trademark registered and continues to retain much residual goodwill and
reputation in the Indian market and the same was further supplemented and
enriched by respondent no.2's sales and publicity of the product bearing the
said trademark in a large number of countries throughout the world. A claim
was also made in respect of the product of respondent no.1. bearing 'Pony
Card' which is stated to have been regularly advertised in major journals all
over the world. Details of sales were given for the period 1979 to 1993-94. It
was further alleged in the plaint that respondent no.1 came to know of the
appellant marketing the product and infringing the rights of the respondents
in around June, 1993 and consequently sent a legal notice dated 23rd June,
1993. Certain communications ensued between the appellant and respondent no.1
in respect of the claim of respondent no.1 but no settlement was arrived at
the and consequently the suit was filed.

2\. The appellant resisted the suit of the respondents. Plea of undue delay
and latches was raised as the appellant claimed that they had been using the
trademark and label entitled "V.R." with the device of SWAN and numerals 555
since the year 1989 for Spring Snab Fasteners. The plea was raised int he
written statement that assuming the existence of license agreement alleged by
the respondents, the admitted position was that the agreement had expired in
1981 and the trademark 555 had never been used in India either in respect of
Spring Snab Fasteners or any such allied product at any time by the
respondents. Thus it was claimed that since no goods were sold under the
alleged registered trademark '555' in the Indian market , there was not
question of effecting any sales.

3\. At the stage of filing of the suit an interim application was also field
by the respondents under order 39 rules 1 & 2, read with section 151 CPC begin
IA No. 8748/95. This application was disposed of by the impugned order dated
28th March, 2000. In terms of this order the learned Single Judge was of the
view that there cold not be any confusion in the mind of the customer while
purchasing the same type of goods as the features of the two cards were
distinctive and the plaintiff was not entitled to injunction in respect of the
card with which the fasteners were begin displayed and sold to the customers.
However, insofar as the question of use of the figure '555' as trademark was
concerned, the learned Single Judge came to the conclusion that the
registration of the mark in favor of the respondents coupled with the adoption
of the mark by the appellant not being honest the respondents were entitled to
a restraint order against the appellant from using the said trademark '555' or
any other mark deceptively similar to the same.

4\. The appellant aggrieved by the said restraint order preferred the present
appeal. The appeal was admitted on 4th May, 2000 and the operation of the
impugned order was stayed. The respondents, on the other hand, being aggrieved
by the refusal of learned Single Judge to grant them relief with respect to
their other prayers in the application have filed cross-objections.

5\. Mr. R.K. Aggarwal, learned counsel for the appellant, drew our attention
to the fact that the learned Single Judge had found that the impugned
labels/cards of both the parties were entirely different yet proceeded to
injunct the appellant from the use of the trademark '555'. The learned counsel
contended that the respondents had never used the trademark for the last 40
years in India except for the period 1977 to 1979. The learned counsel
referred to the fact that admittedly the license agreement between the two
respondents did not survive after 1981 and there had been no user for the
trademark in India at least since that date. Mr. Aggarwal, further contended
that the respondents had failed to substantiate their claim of global
reputation or any advertisement in India since no document for the same was
filed on record.

6\. The suit is also claimed to have been filed belatedly and thus suffered on
grounds of delays and latches as admittedly the cause of action in para 36 of
the plaint was stated to have arisen in June, 1993 while the suit was filed in
1995. Further submission was made by learned counsel for the appellant that
respondents were not granted any interim injunction till the date of the
impugned order on 29th March, 2000 which order was also stayed by the Division
Bench on 4th May, 2000.

7\. Mr. R.K. Aggarwal, learned counsel for the appellant, submitted that the
findings of the learned Single Judge to the effect that plea of non-user had
not been taken in the written statement by the appellant was not borne out of
the record because the appellant throughout the written statement had
contended that the respondents were not using the trademark in India. Learned
counsel has also impugned the finding of learned Single Judge to effect that
the respondents had placed on record invoices to show that at least till 1981
the goods with the trademark '555' were begin exclusively sold in India.
Learned counsel drew our attention to the invoices filed on record to show
that the same related only for a brief period of about a year and a half
between 1977 and 1979. Similarly the finding of the learned Single Judge in
respect of the reputation of the goods of the respondents in India in 1960's
and 1970's was stated to be not borne from the record as there was nothing
placed on record to substantiate the same. It was thus the submission of
learned counsel for the appellant that the non-user of the trademark over a
long period of time is fatal for the owner of the trademark when it approaches
the court of law for its protection since the trademark cannot exist in
vacuum. The claim of global reputation has to be substantiated by documentary
evidence and in the absence of the same it was contended that the respondent
had made out no case for the same.

8\. Mr. Aggarwal further contended that the use of mark has to be continuous,
open, regular and uninterrupted and very registration of the mark would not
given any right or entitlement to the owner of the mark to claim monopoly over
the same until and unless it was in use. The use of the trademark was claimed
by the counsel for the appellant to be superior to the registration of the
mark. The equities were claimed to be in favor of the appellant as also the
balance of convenience because the appellant had been using the impugned label
for more than last 11 years while the respondents had not been using the
trademark at least since 1981. The last submission advanced on behalf of the
appellant by Mr. Aggarwal is that the label has to be compared as a whole and
not in insolation. It was contended that the composite mark/label has to be
compared without the same being dissected.

9\. Mr. R.K. Aggarwal, learned counsel for the appellant, referred to the
documents filed on behalf of the respondents to substantiate its claim of
sales and submitted that they were for sales in 1979 in India and the
remaining were for the sales in Hongkong and not in India or anywhere else.
Thus it was contended that the respondents had failed to establish any
worthwhile reputation in the world for the sale of the product of entitle them
to any protection in terms of the judgment in N.R. Gongre & Ors. vs. Whirlpool
Corporation & Anr. .

10\. Learned counsel referred to various judgments to substantiate his
contentions. Mr. Aggarwal referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court in
Corn Products Refining Co., vs. Shangrila Food Products Ltd. . The Supreme
Court observed in para 15 as under:-

"Now of course, the presence of a mark in the register does not prove its user
at all. It is possible that the mark may have been registered but not used. It
is not permissible to draw any inference as to their user from the presence of
the marks on the register."

11\. The learned counsel next referred to the judgment of the court of appeal
in Imperial Group Ltd. vs. Philip Morris & Co. Ltd. 1982 FSR 72 and drew our
attention to certain observation in the judgment which are as under:-

"Unlike a copyright, a trademark does not arise from the mere use of a word or
words or a formula or a mark; it derives from the use of words or marks in
relation to a course of trade in gods giving rise to a goodwill connecting the
trader with the goods by reason of the trade mark under which the goods are
marketed. It follows that where, in relation to particular goods, there is no
such course of trading as to give rise to a goodwill, there is no interest to
be protected by a trademark and no such mark can subsist in vacuo."

"...In my judgment "a bona fide course of trading" involves a trading activity
pursued with the primary intention of deriving from it a trading profit
coupled with a trading goodwill, these begin the ultimate and legitimate
objectives of trade."

12\. The learned counsel for the appellant relied on Cluett Peabody & Co. Inc.
vs. Arrow Apparels 1998 PTC (18) 156. The Bombay High Court considered the
issue of delay as a defense when the mark had been copied and agreed with the
submissions of learned counsel for the defendants that in a suit for
infringement of trademark priority in use could not be dishonest. The High
Court observed that the right of exclusive use is acquired by user or by
registration or by assignment but the essential feature for constituting the
proprietary in trademark is that it should be used by the proprietor in his
business or in connection with his vendible commodity. The court was of the
view that though the delay by itself was not a defense but non-user of the
mark loses its distinctiveness. A trademark which drops out of the use dies
for non-user. Where there are no goods offered for sale, there is no use of
trademark.

13\. The learned counsel for the appellant, to substantiate his contention
that the label has to be read as a whole and could not be dissected, referred
to the Division Bench judgment of this court in Kellog Company vs. Pravin
Kumar Bhadabhai 1996 PTC (16) 187. The Division Bench was of the view that the
trade dress or rather the whole thing must be seen in its entirety and not
parts in isolation. The case of Schewappers Ltd. vs. Gibbens (1905) 22 RPC was
referred to where it was held that the fraudulent intention could not be
presumed in respect of the similarities in the bottle of Sodawater labels and
colours because the distinguishing feature of the name adopted show that it
had not intention of deceiving the purchasers. Observation in this case were
quoted with approval to the effect that "and if a person is no careless that
he does not look and doe not,... treats the label fairly but takes the bottle
without sufficient consideration and without reading what is written very
plainly indeed up - the face of the label on which the trader has placed his
own name, then you certainly cannot say he is deceived - in fact, he does not
care which it is. That would be the true interference which I think a person
would draw from conduct so described."

14\. Lastly the learned counsel in support of his plea of equity and balance
of convenience referred to the judgment of Synthetic Moulders vs. Samperit
Samperit Aktieregeselshaft 1980 RLR 263 to contend that interim injunction
should be granted against the alleged infringer only if the equities are in
his favor and he moves the court without delay. The Division Bench of this
court in Synthetic Moulders case (supra) was of the view that mere
registration of the trademark would not establish rights under section 28 of
the Act to grant temporary injunction and that the balance of convenience in
granting temporary injunction has to be determined by relative amount of
damage which is likely to result after the injunction is granted and the
plaintiff ultimately fails. (Stated to be as per Kerly Trademarks and
Tradenames, 10th Edition paragraph 15.65).

15\. Mr. Naveen Chawla, learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand,
contended that the design of the label and the use of trademark '555' was to
give a distinct impression to the public that the appellant was a successor to
the product of respondent no.1 Mr. Chawla, strongly relied on the failure of
the appellant to even seek the cancellation of the registered trademark of the
respondents '555' which was so registered in 1951.

16\. Mr. Chawla while referring to the various provisions of the Act submitted
that there were rights conferred under section 28 of the Act and the
registered proprietor of the trademark had the exclusive right to use the
trademark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trademark was
registered. Section 29 refers to the infringement of the trademarks. We may
clarify here that section 29(2) provides that in an action for infringement of
a trademark registered in Part B of the registered an injunction or other
relief was not liable to be granted to the plaintiff if it was established to
the satisfaction of the court that the mark was not likely to deceive or cause
confusion between the goods of the parties. Section 31 provides registration
to be prima facie evidence of validity and section 46 provides for the removal
from the register and imposition of limitation on ground of non-use. In terms
of section 46(1)(b) a trademark may be taken off the register in respect of
any goods of which it is registered on an application begin made in the
prescribed manner on the ground that up to a date one month before the date of
application, a continuous period of 5 years or longer had elapsed during which
the trademark was registered and during which there was no bonafide use
thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor for the time being.

17\. Thus Mr. Chawla contended that the appellant if so aggrieved by the non-
user by the respondents, was entitled in law to seek cancellation under
section 26(1)(b) of the Act which admittedly the appellant had not done. It
was thus contended that in an infringement action the registered user was
entitle to an injunction if the mark was being used by another party. it was
further contended that no plea was raised in the written statement by the
appellant as to why the figure '555' was being used by him and thus the
balance of convenience was in favor of dropping the said mark. It was further
contended that no issue in the suit had been framed on account of non-user by
the respondents. It was also contended that admittedly, there was prior to
adoption of the mark by the respondents apparent from sales figures having
been given since at least 1979. Mr. Chawla referred to the judgment of Supreme
Court in Ruston &Hornsby Ltd. vs. The Zamindara Engineer Co. to point out the
distinction between an infringement action and a passing of action. It would
be useful to reproduce the relevant passages of the judgment which are as
under:-

"3. The distinction between an infringement action and a passing off action is
important. Apart from the question as to the nature of trademark the issue in
an infringement action is quite different from the issue in a passing off
action. In a passing off action the issue is as follows:-

"Is the defendant selling goods so marked as to be designed or calculated to
lead purchasers to believe that they are the plaintiff's goods?

But in an infringement action the issue is as follows:-

"Is the defendant using a mark which is the same as or which is a colourable
imitation of the plaintiff's registered trademark."

4\. It very often happens that although the defendant is not using the
trademark of the plaintiff, the get up of the defendant's goods may be so much
like the plaintiff's that a clear case of passing off would be proved. it is
on the contrary conceivable that although the defendant may be using the
plaintiff's mark the get up of the defendant's goods may be so different from
the get up of the plaintiff's goods and the prices also may by so different
that there would be no probability of deception of the public. Nevertheless,
in an action on the trade mark, that is to say in a infringement action, an
injunction would issue as soon as it is proved that the defendant is
improperly using the plaintiff's mark.

5\. The action for infringement is a statutory right. It is dependent upon the
validity of the registration and subject to other restrictions laid down in
sections 30, 34 and 35 of the Act. On the other hand the gist of a passing off
action is that A is not entitled to represent his goods as the goods of B but
it is not necessary for B to prove that A did this knowingly or with any
intent to deceive.

6\. xxxx

7\. In an action for infringement where the defendant's trademark is identical
with the plaintiff's mark, the Court will not enquire whether the infringement
is such as is likely to deceive or cause confusion. But where the alleged
infringement consists of using nor the exact mark on the register, but
something similar to it, the test of infringement is the same in an action for
passing off. In other words, the test as to likelihood of confusion or
deception arising from similarity of marks is the same both in infringement
and passing off actions.

18\. The learned counsel then referred to the judgment of Kaviraj Pandi Durga
Dutt Sharma vs. Navaratna Pharmaceutical Laboratories where the Supreme Court
was of the view that if the essential features of the trade mark had been
adopted the effect that the get up, packing and other written on the packets
or the goods or on the packets in which the goods were offered for sale show
mark differences or indicate clearly a trade origin different from that of the
registered proprietor of the mark would be immaterial whereas in the case of
passing of a party may escape liability if it can show that the added matter
is sufficient to distinguish the goods of the parties. A reference was then
made to a full bench judgment of this court in Metro Plastic Industries (Regd)
vs. M.S. Galaxy Footwear New Delhi 200 PTC 1 (FB). The Full Bench while
dealing with the provisions under the Designs Act, 1911 observed that any
application under section 51A of the Designs Act brings into could the
registration of the design and in the absence of an application for
cancellation of the design such a right can be enforced and no defense can be
taken based on a ground of cancellation. This was to harmoniously construe the
provisions of section 51A and section 53 of the Designs Act, 1911. A reference
was also made to the judgment in Phillip Morris Belgium S.A. vs. Golden
Tobacco Co. Ltd. AIR 1986 Delhi 145 where learned Judge relied on the
observation in the Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd. vs. Hind Cycles Ltd. 2nd (1973)
1 Delhi 393 to observe:

"In an action for an alleged infringement of a registered trademark, it has
first to be seen whether the impugned mark of the defendant is identical with
the registered trademark of the plaintiff. If the mark is found to be
identical no further question arises and it has to be held that there was
infringement."

19\. Referring to the judgment in Wearwell Cycle Co. (India) Ltd. vs. Wearwell
Industries, Ludhiana it was observed that the question of balance of
convenience while dealing with the order 39 rules 1 and 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 in case of a passing of action was relevant when prima facie
the two parties were on the same level and their rights were about equal. This
was stated to be not so where a defendant has adopted in toto the registered
trademark of the plaintiff which made it a clear case of infringement casting
away the consideration of any balance of convenience.

20\. Mr. Aggarwal, learned counsel for the appellant in his rejoinder referred
to the judgment of Bombay High Court in Consolidated Foods Corporation vs.
Brandon and Co., Private Ltd. to rebut the contentions advanced on behalf of
the respondent and to advance his submission that mere registration without
user would not give rights in law.

21\. We have considered the submissions advanced on behalf of he appellant by
Mr. R.K. Aggarwal and on behalf of the respondents by Mr. Naveen Chawla. At
the inception it may be stated that though the respondents have filed cross-
objection but the same were not seriously pressed. Further, the learned Single
Judge has eloquently dealt with the points raised in the cross-objections and
had come to the conclusion that there cannot be any deception or confusion in
the mind of the customer who wishes to purchase similar goods in the market.
The appellant has the description of V.R. at the tope of the label with a
device of Swan while in the case of the respondents the device of Pony is
printed. Further the name of the manufacturer is displayed in case of the
product both the appellant and the respondents prominently and thus the
features of the two cards can be immediately noticed by customer. We are thus
in full agreement with the conclusion of the learned Single Judge.

22\. In view of the aforesaid, the question which needs examination is the
rights agitated by the respondents in respect of the registered trademark
"555". Taking into consideration the submissions advanced on behalf of the
appellant and the respondents the following aspects would require adjudication
in the present appeal.

1) The effect of the respondents being the registered owner of the trademark
'555', taking into consideration the allegations of non-use by the appellant.

2) Whether the respondents were able to establish prima facie any world-wide
reputation and sales under the trademark.

3) The effect of the composite label as a whole including the use of the word
'555' and

4) The allegation of delay and lapse of time in filing of the suit from the
stated date of cause of action in the plaint.

23\. The primary aspect in our considered view which need sot be examined is
the issue relating to the respondents being the registered user of the
trademark and whether the allegations of non-use has any effect of the same.
The counsel for the parties have taken use though the documents to show their
sales. These are in the form of invoices and other materials. We find force in
the submission of learned counsel for the appellant that the material placed
on record shows sales only for a short period of time from 1977 to 1979. It is
an admitted position that the inter - se license agreement between the two
respondents did not survive after 1981, which prima facie show that there has
been no sales by the respondent after 1981. Though the aspect of global
reputation has been mentioned above, as the second issue, it would be
pertinent to state at this stage that no material has been placed on record to
substantiate this claim of global reputation. The invoices are fora limited
period of time and some of the invoices relate to Hong Kong. There is also
nothing on record to show any reputation of the goods of the respondents in
India in 1960s and 1970s, as observed by the learned Single Judge. Thus we are
also unable to agree with the factual finding of the learned Single Judge that
there is material on record to show that there were sales by the respondents
in India prior to 1981 other than for the period 1977 to 1979.

24\. In view of the aforesaid factual position what has to be considered is
whether the factum of the registration of the trademark in the name of
appellant is sufficient to grant relief in favor of the respondents or whether
something more is required. This has to be considered in view of the
submission of learned counsel for the appellant that the trademark cannot
exist in vacuum and in view of their being a non-user of trademark since 1981,
the respondents are not entitled to any protection.

25\. The Bombay High Court has considered in depth a similar situation, though
not identical, in the case of Cluett Peabody's case (supra). It would be
useful to refer to the said judgment while examining the said aspect. Similar
pleas had been advanced in the said case by the registered owner of the
trademark to the effect that the mark being registered is conclusive as to its
validity and till and rectification is carried out, the registered owner is
entitled to its exclusive use. It may, however, be stated that in Cluett
Peabody's case (supra) the opposite party had applied for rectification and
removal of the plaintiff's name from the register while in the present case no
such action has been taken by the appellant. It was the further contention by
the registered owner that the non use of the mark in India was no defense to
the infringement to the registered mark. The learned Single Judge of the
Bombay High Court was of the view that the essential feature for constituting
the proprietary right in trademark is that it should be used by the proprietor
in his business or in connection with vendible commodity.

26\. Though delay be itself would not be a defense but if there was a non-user
for a long period of time the mark would lose its distinctiveness or the mark
is then permitted to die for non-user. The Bombay High Court observed "It is
well settled that lapse of time may bring about a change in the state of
things in such a manner that to grant injunction in favor of the plaintiff's
would be harsh and it may cause irreparable damage or harm to the rights of
the defendants." Thus the Bombay High Court was of the view that non-use of
trademark does have a bearing in action for infringement specially at the
interlocutory stage and equities would have to be balanced in such a
situation. The Bombay High Court had further laid down certain principles in
this behalf which have been reproduced in the impugned judgment. In point (f)
of the order dated 28th March, 2000 it is stated that the object of the Act is
to protect the right and not be a source of monopoly. In point (j) it has been
observed that a mark can lose its distinctiveness by non-user. Thus the
enforcement of the right of exclusive use of a trade mark will depend on
continuous use of the mark by the proprietor. In point (k) it has been
observed that the court shall not protect the right of proprietor unless there
is sale of the articles to which trade mark is attached or related.

27\. The learned Single Judge though has considered the observations in the
Cluett Peadbody's case (supra) was of the view that the said judgment would
have no application to the facts of the present case as in view of learned
Single Judge the plea about the non-user had not been taken in the written
statement and further registration of the trademark gives to the registered
proprietor the exclusive right to use the same in relation to the goods in
respect of which the mark is registered. The first reason which weighted with
the learned Single Judge, in our considered view, is not borne out of the
records because in the written statement plea has specifically been taken of
non-user by the respondents. Reference in this behalf may be made to para 7
and para 8 of the written statement. In para 8 the appellant specifically
states "since no gods under the alleged trademark '555' have ever been sold in
the Indian markets there is no question of effecting any sales thereof to the
tune of a single penny what to talk of the figures of the lakhs of rupees as
alleged in para under reply of the plaint".

28\. Thus we find that a specific plea has been raised about non-user and in
view of the termination of the inter se agreement between the respondents in
1981 there is nothing to show any sales thereafter. Even prior to that date
sales have been shown only for a short period of 1-1/2 years from 1977 to
1979. No material has been placed to show transborder sales or reputation in
the product.

29\. We are in agreement with the view of the learned Single Judge of the
Bombay High Court that if there is non-user for a long period of time then by
mere registration of the mark continuing the respondents would not be entitled
to any injunction. this view is further reinforced by the judgment in Imperial
Group's case (supra) wherein it was held that where there is no trading to
give rise to a goodwill there is no interest to be protected by a trademark
and such a trademark cannot exist in vacuum.

30\. Another aspect which is required to be considered is the contention of
the appellant that for grounds of delays and latches the respondents is not
entitled to any relief. There is no doubt about the proposition that mere
delays and latches would not suffice if the rights were in respect of a
registered trademark though it may have some bearing for consideration of
injunction at the inter locutory state in weighing the balance of convenience.
In terms of the cause of action paragraph 36 of the plaint, cause of action is
stated to have arisen in June, 1993. Suit was filed in 1995. This fact has to
be read along with the fact that the appellant had been using the card and the
label with '555' mark at least since 1991. At the same time respondent no.1
has admittedly no production or sale in India since 1981. It is not even a
case of production in India meant for exports. The trademark of '555' was
registered in 1951. The only sales in India as per record are for a short
period in 1977 to 1979 for a period of 1-1/2 years. All these factors taken
together persuade us against granting any interim relief to the respondents.
It may be relevant to add that there was no interim order granted in favor of
the respondents when the suit was filed and the interim order was granted for
the first time vide impugned order dated 28th March, 2000 which was also
stayed by the Division Bench soon thereafter on 4th May, 2000. Thus the
appellant has been carrying on the business with his label and card for the
last more than 10 years. There has also not been any material placed on record
to show that respondent no.1 has come back into business in India at any
subsequent stage of time. We also draw strength from the Division Bench's
judgment of this court in Synthetic Moulders' case (supra) that while
considering granting temporary injunction, the relevant amount of damage which
is likely to result in case the plaintiff ultimately fails is also a factor to
be considered.

31\. It is no doubt true that the appellant has failed to avail of the remedy
under section 26(1)(b) of the Act for seeking cancellation of the mark but
that would not be fatal for the appellant in the facts and circumstances of
the case.

32\. There can be no doubt about the proposition that the considerations in an
actin for infringement of a mark and in passing of action is different as set
out by the Supreme Court in Ruston & Hornsby's case (supra). However, in the
present case the learned Single Judge himself found that there was
distinctiveness between the two cards and labels and we have agreed with the
said conclusion. The mere mention of the trademark '555' along with the other
features prima facie, does not give any rights to respondent no.1, taking into
consideration the non-user of the registered mark for over a long period of 40
years (except in a short intervening period of about 1-1/2 years from 1977 to
1979).

33\. On appreciation of the facts of the case we are unable to agree with
conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the adoption of the trademark
'555' is dishonest. Delay simpliciter may not be a defense in a suit for
infringement of trademark but where a trader allows a rival trader to expend
money over a considerable period in building up a business with the aid of a
mark similar to his own he will not be allowed to stop his rivals' business.
If he were permitted to do so great loss would be caused not only to the rival
trader but to those who depend on his business for their livelihood.
(Reference to Law of Trade Marks and Passing Off by P Narayanan, 5th Edition,
page 441).

34\. It may, however, be pointed out that there can not be any hard and fast
rule in determining the cut-off point when non-use of the registered mark
would disentitle the trader to any protection. It would depends upon facts and
circumstances of each case.

35\. There is another aspect to this matter. We are dealing with the matter at
the interlocutory stage. The rights have yet to be finally decided in the
suit. There can be protective mechanism when rights of two parties are
balanced in appropriate manner. The alternative to the interim injunction can
be to direct the appellant to maintain an account of profits every year and
file the same in the court. We are persuaded to take this direction as the
object of the Trade Mark Act is to protect the proprietary right of a
registered trademark holder but not to be a source of monopoly where the
holder of the trademark does not, prima facie, carry on business of over a
long period of time, as in the present case.

36\. The result is that the appeal of the appellant the part of the judgment
dated 23rd February, 2000 restricting the use of the trademark '555' is
allowed and the impugned part of the judgment is set aside. The cross-
objections filed by the respondents are dismissed. The appellant's application
for interim relief is dismissed but subject to the condition of the appellant
to maintain an audited account of profits every year, a copy of which shall be
filed in the suit with an advance copy to the respondents on or before the
30th June. For the previous financial year the appellant shall file such
accounts of the profit for the period commencing from 1st January, 1996 till
date within a period of six weeks from the date of the present order.

37\. In the facts and circumstances of the case, the parties are left to bear
their own costs.

