

Madras High Court

Mr.A.D.Padmasingh Isaac vs Aachi Aappakadai Chettinad A/C ... on 28 February,
2014

    
    
           
    
      
    
      
    
     
     
     IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
    				DATED :         28.02.2014
    CORAM :
    THE HONOURABLE Mr.JUSTICE R.SUBBIAH
    Original Applications Nos.154 & 155 of 2013
    and
    Civil Suit No.151 of 2013
    
    1.Mr.A.D.Padmasingh Isaac
       Plot No.1926, 34th Street,
       I Block, Ishwarya Colony,
       Anna Nagar West,
       Chennai-600 040.
    
    2.M/s.Aachi Masala Foods (P) Ltd.,
       Old No.4, New No.181/1,
       6th Avenue, Thangam Colony,
       Anna Nagar,
       Chennai-600 040.
       represented by its Director
        Mr.Ashwin Pandian			.... Applicants/plaintiffs
    					
    					Vs.
    
    Aachi Aappakadai Chettinad A/c Restaurant
    No.834/596, Poonamallee High Road,
    Opp Panchali Amman Koil,
    Arumbakkam,
    Chennai-600 106.					... Respondent/defendant

Prayer: Original Applications have been filed under Order 14 Rule 8 of
O.S.Rules and Order 39 Rule 1 & 2 of CPC, for the reliefs as stated therein.

    
    
    		For Applicants     : M/s.Gladys Daniel
    		For Respondent  : Mr.J.Ravikumar
    
    
    
    
    
    R.SUBBIAH, J.,
    
    

Original Application No.154 of 2013 has been filed seeking for grant of
interim injunction restraining the respondent, by themselves, their servants,
agents, distributors or any one claiming through them from manufacturing,
selling, from advertising and offering for sale using the same name AACHI used
by the applicants and the trade mark/name AACHI AAPAKADAI CHETTINADU A/c
Restaurant or any other similar Trade Mark name or similar sounding expression
in any media and using the same in name board, invoices, letter heads and
visiting cards or by using any other trade mark/name which is in any way
visually or deceptively or phonetically similar to the Applicant's trade
mark/name AACHI/AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT and using the same in pouches,
packets or using the mark in invoices, letters heads and visiting cards or
part of their Hotel/Restaurant name any other trade literature or Menu Card by
using any other trade mark, which is in any way visually or phonetically
similar to the applicant's registered Trade Mark No.1116254 or in any manner
infringing the applicant's registered Trade Marks, pending disposal of the
suit.

2.Original Application No.155 of 2013 has been filed seeking for grant of
interim injunction restraining the respondents by themselves, their agents or
servants or any one claiming through or under them from marketing, selling
advertising using in trade literature, menu cards, invoices, name boards,
website, internet advertisements the mark/name Aachi Appakadai Chettinad A/c
Restaurant in relation to the Restaurant or with respect to or any other food
preparation or on any other business the impugned trademark/name which is in
any manner deceptively or phonetically confusingly similar to the Applicant's
Trade Mark/name AACHI/AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT or in any other manner pass
off their business or goods as and for that of the applicants, pending
disposal of the suit.

3.The applicants herein are the plaintiffs and the respondent is the defendant
in the suit.

4.The case of the applicants/plaintiffs in brief is as follows:-

4(1)The applicants/plaintiffs commenced their business in the year 1995 with
the objective of manufacturing and marketing various kinds of masalas and
spices. Over the years, the applicants have grown into one of the leading
manufacturers and marketers of spices in India, by their sheer high quality
and reliability and due to the enormous goodwill earned by the applicants in
the course of their business. The applicants are presently dealing in over 400
different products with the Trade Mark AACHI. The applicants have also
diversified their business activities and started manufacturing and marketing
various kinds of consumer goods, within a short span of 17 years. The
applicants in order to distinguish their various items of products from
others, adopted the Trade Mark 'AACHI' for all their products and services.
The expression 'AACHI' has become very popular because of their continuous and
substantial usage of the mark over a decade. This Trade Mark has become very
popular and a very valuable intellectual property of the applicants. No one
can use the said expression AACHI for spices and masalas and other goods or
services, for which the applicants are using the said mark. The mark is unique
and distinctive of the applicants' goods and no one has used the Trade Mark
AACHI for masala preparations and its allied preparations prior to the
applicants. The applicants have honestly adopted the Trade Mark and have put
in enormous hard work and labour and invested huge sums of money, for
advertisement and sales promotional expenses. The applicants have been using
the Trade Mark 'AACHI' with respect to almost all the masala preparations from
the commencement of their business. The applicants have acquired enormous
goodwill and reputation. In order to protect this intellectual property,
particularly with respect to the Trade Mark, the applicants applied for the
registration of trademark on 04.05.2000 in Class 20. The Registrar of Trade
Marks, on consideration of the substantial use and reputation, granted
registration for the Trade Mark AACHI under Registration No.922594 in favour
of the applicants. Since then, the applicants have become exclusive owner of
this trademark 'AACHI'.

4(2)The applicants have also obtained registration of the trademark AACHI
CHETTINAD RESTAURANT under No.1116254 on 03.07.2002 in respect of Food
Preparations for Human Consumption like coffee, tea, coca, sugar, rice,
tapioca, sago, coffee substitutes, flour and preparations made from cereals,
bread, biscuits, cakes, pastry, and confectionery, ice. The applicants have
sole proprietary right over this mark. Any unthorized use of the same mark or
similar Trade Mark would amount to infringement of the applicants' trademark.

4(3)While so, in December-2012 the applicants came across the respondent-
restaurant bearing the name Aachi Aappakadai Chettinad A/c Restaurant, which
is a blatant infringement of the applicants' registered Trade Mark 'AACHI
CHETTINAD RESTAURANT'. The two marks are visually and phonetically similar.
The respondent-restaurant namely Aachi Aappakadai Chettinad A/c Restaurant is
identical to the applicants' Trade Mark. The copy is total and consciously
taken from the applicants' label with intention of taking undue advantage of
reaping the benefit without sowing. The respondent's service is inferior in
quality and substandard. Hence, according to the applicants, if the
respondent/defendant is not stopped from using the identical trademark, then
it will cause irreparable loss and hardship to the applicants/plaintiffs.
Hence, the applicants/plaintiffs filed the present suit. Pending the suit, the
plaintiffs have filed the above applications for the relief as stated supra.

5.This Court, by order dated 13.09.2013, while ordering notice to the
respondent, has granted interim injunction for a period of four weeks.

6.On appearance, the respondent has filed applications in A.Nos.1595 & 1596 of
2013 to vacate the interim injunction, contending as follows:-

6(1)The word 'AACHI' is a common Tamil word, which is prominently used in
Chettinad region of Tamil Nadu. The simple meaning of the word 'AACHI' is
elderly woman. This word is commonly used in relation to Chettinad Style of
cooking. It is neither an invented word nor coined word of the applicants and
hence, it does not carry any distinctive character. Hence, under Section
9(1)(a) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, (for short 'Act') common words such as
AACHI ought not to have been registered as a Trade Mark. Hence, the
registration of the word AACHI is inherently incapable of becoming
distinctive of any single person with respect to any product or service. The
word 'AACHI' is used in relation to Chettinadu style of cooking and it is
closely associated to the Karaikudi region. It is also customary for
Restaurants offering Chettinad variety of dishes to use the word 'AACHI'.
Hence, the registration of the word 'AACHI' is violative of Section 9(1)(b)
and (c) of the Act. It is not the claim of the applicants that the trademark
acquired distinctive character even long prior to the registration. Hence, the
word 'AACHI' is incapable of being registered under the aforesaid provisions
of Trade Marks Act, 1999. Any such use of the word 'AACHI' by the respondent
herein enjoys the protection offered by Section 30(2)(a) of the Act, despite
the registration made by the applicants herein.

6(2)The respondent is a honest and bone fide user of the word 'AACHI' in
relation to the Chettinad Restaurant run by them in the name and style of
'AACHI AAPAKADAI CHETTINAD A/c RESTAURANT'. The respondent was not aware of
the Trademark of the applicants. The respondent does not claim exclusive right
or monopoly over the word 'AACHI' or 'Karaikudi' or 'Chettinad', since such
words are generic in nature and not capable of being monoplised by any person.
Similarly the applicants are not entitled to claim monopoly right over such
words and wrongfully prevent others from using such generic words. Therefore,
the registration of the Trade Mark 'AACHI' is contrary to the provision of the
Trade Marks Act. Hence, there is no need to pass any interim injunction order
by this Court. Thus, the respondent sought for vacating the interim
injunction.

7.Learned counsel for the applicants submitted that the 1st applicant is the
Registered proprietor of the Trademark AACHI in respect of various spices,
condiments, goods and services. The 2nd applicant-Company is permitted to use
the Trademark AACHI by way of a common law license. The applicants are the
prior users of the trademark AACHI since 1995. At present, the applicants
are the Registered Proprietors of the Trademark AACHI in respect of a
variety of goods and services in various stylized marks. Among other marks,
the 1st applicant is also the proprietor of the trademark AACHI CHETTINADU
RESTAURANT under Reg. No.1116254 in Class 30, from 03.07.2002. The applicants
label mark was registered on 01.11.2004. The Trademark AACHI had acquired a
secondary meaning on account of long usage. While so, in December 2012, the
applicants came across the Restaurant run by the respondent at Chennai having
the name AACHI AAPAKADAI CHETTINADU A/C RESTAURANT. The use of the said mark
by the respondent has not been authorized by the applicants and hence, it
amounts to infringement of Registered Trademark and Passing Off. The
applicants are not objecting the use of AAPAKADAI CHETTINADU A/C RESTAURANT.
The applicants are only objecting the use of word AACHI by the respondent.
Thus, the learned counsel for the applicants prays to make the interim
injunction order as absolute.

8.Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the word
AACHI is a common Tamil word and it does not carry any distinctive character.
Under Section 9(1)(a) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, the common words such as
'AACHI' shall not be registered as Trade Mark. Hence, the registration of the
word AACHI as a Trademark by the applicants is invalid. Since the word AACHI
is a common word, the question as to whether the word AACHI carries any
distinctive character or secondary meaning could be decided only at the time
of trial. In this regard, the learned counsel for the respondent relied upon
the judgment reported in AIR 1955 SC 558 (Registrar of Trade Marks Vs. Ashok
Chandra Rakhit Ltd) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that the word
'Shree' is a common word in India with multiple meanings and such common words
are not entitled to protection. Similarly, the learned counsel for the
respondent has relied upon the judgment reported in CDJ 2011 DHC 1174 (Bhole
Baba Milk Food Industries Ltd Vs. Parul Food Specialities Pvt. Ltd.), wherein
the Division of Bench of Delhi High Court held that the registration would
give protection for the Trade Mark as a whole and not to a particular word of
common origin.

9.The learned counsel for the respondent has further submitted that though the
applicants are the proprietors of the registered Trade Mark 'AACHI', they are
primarily dealing with only Masalas and spices. Though the applicants have
registered the Trademark AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT on 03.07.2002, till date
they have not used the said Trademark in respect of the restaurant business.
While the word AACHI is being used as common word, the applicants cannot
prevent the respondent from using the said word. In this regard, the learned
counsel for the respondent relied upon the judgment reported in CDJ 2007 BHC
624 (Balkrishna Hatcheries Vs. Nandos International Ltd & another), wherein
the Bombay High Court has held that when the plaintiff has no business or
goodwill or reputation in the business of running restaurant, there is no
question of passing of by the defendants of their restaurant business or
business of sale of sauces as that of the plaintiff. The learned counsel for
the respondent has also relied upon the judgment reported in 1997(4) SCC 201
(Vishnudas Trading Vs. Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co. Ltd), wherein it has been held
by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that non-user of the Trademark should not be
allowed to enjoy monopoly, otherwise, he will indulge in mischief of
trafficking in Trademark and prevent all bone fide user of such common word.

10.By way of reply, the learned counsel for the applicants submitted that
under Section 31 of the Trade Marks Act, the validity of the registered
Trademark cannot be challenged on the ground that it was not registrable under
Section 9 of the Act. Now, the respondent is seeking to challenge the validity
of the appellants' trademark on the ground that it is of a descriptive
expression. The Law provides for a separate procedure to challenge the
registration under Sections 46 & 57 of the Act. The respondent has not chosen
to invoke the said provisions. In support of her contention, the learned
counsel for the applicants relied upon the judgment reported in AIR 1994 DELHI
239 (Daimler Benz Aktiegesellschaft Vs. Hybo Hindustan). In that case, the
defendant therein was using the word 'Benz' in respect of their products like
underwears. Hence, a suit was filed as against the defendant therein to
restrain them from using the word 'Benz' with reference to underwears. In that
case, the Delhi High Court held that 'Benz' as a name of a Car would be known
to every family that has ever used a quality car and when 'Benz' is a name
given to a very high priced and extremely well engineered Car, the defendant
therein cannot dilute that, by user of the name 'Benz' with respect to a
product like underwears. Thus, the Delhi High Court granted injunction in
favour of the appellant therein.

11.For the same proposition of law, the learned counsel for the applicants has
also relied upon the judgment reported in 1988 PTC 1 (Kmala Trading Co.,
Bombay and other Vs. Gillette U.K.Limited, Middle Sex, England). In that case,
as the tooth brushes were manufactured and sold in the Bombay market under the
trademark 7 O' CLOCK by the defendant therein, a suit was filed by the
plaintiff therein who is the manufacturer of 7 O' CLOCK blade. In that case,
a defence was taken by the defendants stating that the goods manufactured by
the plaintiffs and the defendants are different in nature and they are not
available in the same shop and the customers of those goods are different.
But, the said contention was rejected by the Bombay High Court observing that
those goods are available in every shop including a small shop and they are
daily requirement of every person. Thus, the Bombay High Court granted
injunction.

12.It is yet another submission of the learned counsel for the applicants that
the trademark AACHI is not a descriptive expression and it is only suggestive.
The word ACCHI denotes a distinguished elderly lady. In support of this
contention, the learned counsel for the applicants relied upon the judment
reported in 2005(30) PTC 1 (Godfrey Philips India Ltd. Vs. Girnar Food &
Beveraes (P) Ltd), wherein it has been held that even descriptive expressions
can acquire exclusive right and a descriptive/laudatory trademark entitled to
protection if it assumed a secondary meaning identifying it with a particular
product or being from a particular source.

13.With regard to the contention raised by the learned counsel for the
respondent that when the applicants are not carrying on business on the
registered Trademark of a common word namely ACCHI, the applicants cannot
prevent other bona fide users to use the said common word, it is the reply of
the learned counsel for the applicants that the non-use of the registered
Trademark only permits the action for removal of the registration on account
of non-use under Section 46 of the Act and it does not permit others to use
the trademark. In support this contention, the learned counsel for the
applicants has also relied upon the judgment reported in AIR 1972 SC 232
(State of U.P. Vs. Ram Nath).

14.I have carefully heard the learned counsel for the applicants as well as
the learned counsel for the respondent and perused the materials available on
record.

15.The applicants are carrying on business from the year 1995. The applicants
diversified their business activities and started to manufacturing and
marketing various kinds of consumer goods, within a short span of 17 years
under the trade mark 'AACHI'. The applicants herein are presently dealing with
400 different products with Trademark 'AACHI'. They are primarily dealing with
only masalas and spices. With an intention to protect their intellectual
property, they registered their trademark 'AACHI' under Application No.838786
dated 29.01.1999, Class-30. The applicants have registered their trademark
'AACHI' for their various products. Thus, the applicants continued to enjoy
reputation over their registered Trademark.

16.On 03.07.2002, the applicants obtained registration of the Trademark AACHI
CHETTINADU RESTAURANT under Registration No.1116254. Though the applicants
registered the Trademark AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT in the year 2002, they
are not using the said trademark for restaurant business. While so, during
December 2012, the applicants came across the restaurant run by the respondent
at Chennai bearing the name Aachi Aappakadai Chettinad A/c Restaurant.

17.It is the contention of the learned counsel for the applicants that since
the applicants have registered the trademark AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT in
respect of the restaurant business, the respondent is not legally entitled to
use the word/name 'AACHI' in the business of restaurant. Further, according to
the learned counsel for the applicants, the mark AACHI by continuous and long
usage by the applicants in their various products has acquired secondary
meaning. Therefore, even assuming for a moment that the applicants are not
carrying on restaurant business, the same will not give right to the
respondent to run the restaurant business by using the applicants' trademark
AACHI.

18.Per contra, it is the submission of the learned counsel for the respondent
that the word 'AACHI' is a common word and it does not carry any distinctive
character and under Section 9 of the Trade Marks Act, the common word such as
AACHI ought not to have been registered. Though the applicants have registered
the trademark AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT in the year 2002, they are not
carrying on hotel business; that since the word AACHI is a common word the
applicants are not legally entitled to prevent the respondent from running the
hotel business under the name of Aachi Aappakadai Chettinad A/c Restaurant.

19.In view of the above submissions made on either side, the following
questions fall for consideration:_ (I)Whether the objection of the respondent
under Section 9 of the Trade Marks Act that since the word AACHI is a common
and generic word, the said word ought not to have been registered by the
Registrar of Trade Marks, will serve as a ground for denying the relief of the
applicants/plaintiffs in the suit filed by the applicants/plaintiffs for
action of infringement.

(II)Since the applicants had registered the trademark ACCHI, whether the same
would prevent the respondent from using the word AACHI in their restaurant
business, especially when the applicants/plaintiffs are not using the
trademark AACHI in their restaurant business.

(III)Whether the trade mark AACHI, as claimed by the applicants in their
applications, by continuous and long usage has acquired a secondary meaning.

20.Question No.I:- Relying upon Section 9 of the Trade Marks Act, it is the
objection of the respondents that the trade Mark AACHI is a common and generic
word and the same ought not to have been registered by the Registrar of Trade
Mark. But, I am of the opinion, under Section 31 of the Trade Marks Act, the
validity of the registered trade mark cannot be challenged in the legal
proceedings on the ground that it is not registrable under Section 9 of the
Act. Section 31 of the Trade Marks Act reads as follows:-

Registration to be prima facie evidence of validity_ (1)In all legal
proceedings relating to a trade mark registered under this act (including
applications under Section 57), the original registration of the trade mark
and of all subsequent assignments and transmissions of the trade mark shall be
prima facie evidence of the validity thereof.

(2)In all legal proceedings as aforesaid a registered trade mark shall not be
held to be invalid on the ground that it was not a registrable trade mark
under Section 9 except upon evidence of distinctiveness and that such evidence
was not submitted to the Registrar before registration, if it is proved that
the trade mark had been so used by the registered proprietor or his
predecessor in title as to have become distinctive at the date of
registration.

Even if the trade mark is not registrable, the respondent is having remedy
only before the Registrar of the Trade Marks under Section 57 of the Act to
remove the trade mark from the register. Therefore, the objection raised by
the learned counsel for the respondent that the trade mark AACHI is not
registrable, will not serve as a ground to vacate the interim injunction
granted by this Court pending disposal of the suit filed for action of
infringement.

21(1).Question No.II:- It is the main submission of the learned counsel for
the applicants that the applicants had registered the trademark AACHI in
respect of masalas and spices. The applicants obtained 51 registrations in
respect of their various products. Though the applicants are mainly dealing
with masalas and spices, they had also registered the trademark AACHI
CHETTINADU RESTAURANT in the year 2002 and the restaurant business is an
allied business to the other businesses of the applicants, since they are
dealing with various food products. The use of the words Aachi Aappakadai
Chettinad A/c Restaurant by the respondent in their restaurant business would
result in confusion and deception in the market; that the general public will
assume that there is a business relationship between the applicants and the
respondent, whereas there is no such relationship. In support of this
submissions, reliance was placed by the learned counsel for the applicants on
the judgments reported in AIR 1994 DELHI 239 (Daimler Benz Aktiegesellschaft
Vs. Hybo Hindustan) and 1988 PTC 1 (Kmala Trading Co., Bombay and other Vs.
Gillette U.K.Limited, Middle Sex, England). It is submitted by the learned
counsel that even in respect of dis-similar goods, Courts have granted
injunction in favour of the plaintiff since the defendant used the trademark
of the plaintiff in their business.

21(2) But, I find that in those cases, the word used as trademark is not a
common or generic word and on the other hand, it is either an invented word or
a coined word of the owner of the registered trade mark. In the instant case,
the word registered by the applicant is "AACHI CHETTINADU RESTAURANT". The
word AACHI in Tamil means 'Grand Mother'. Though the applicants identified
themselves with their business in masalas and spices by using the trademark
AACHI, all along they are not carrying on restaurant business, in respect of
their registered trade mark AACHI CHITTINADU RESTAURANT. Unless and until the
said trade mark 'AACHI' which is a common and generic word, is used as the
trademark in every business, for which they have registered the said trade
mark, in my considered opinion, they can not prevent the respondent from doing
business by using the word 'AACHI' in respect of those businesses, which they
are not using the trade mark ' AACHI'. In fact, the judgment reported in
(1997) 4 SCC 201 (Vishnudas Trading Vs. Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co. Ltd.), gives
a fitting answer to this issue. In the said judgment it has been held as
follows:-

47.The respondent Company got registration of its brand name 'Charminar'
under the broad classification manufactured tobacco. So long such
registration remains operative, the respondent Company is entitled to claim
exclusive use of the said brand name in respect of articles made of tobacco
coming under the said broad classification manufactured tobacco. Precisely
for the said reason, when the appellant made application for registration of
quiwam and zarda under the same brand name Charminar, such prayer for
registration was not allowed. The appellant, therefore, made application for
rectification of the registration made in favour of the respondent Company so
that the said registration is limited only in respect of the articles being
manufactured and marketed by the respondent Company, namely, cigarettes. In
our view, if a trader or manufacturer actually trades in or manufactures only
one or some of the articles coming under a broad classification and such
trader or manufacturer has no bona fide intention to trade in or manufacture
other goods or articles which also fall under the said broad classification,
such trader or manufacturer should not be permitted to enjoy monopoly in
respect of all the articles which may come under such broad classification and
by that process preclude the other traders or manufacturers from getting
registration of separate and distinct goods which may also be grouped under
the broad classification. If registration has been given generally in respect
of all the articles coming under the broad classification and if it is
established that the trader or manufacturer who got such registration had not
intended to use any other article except the articles being used by such
trader or manufacturer, the registration of such trader is liable to be
rectified by limiting the ambit of registration and confining such
registration to the specific article or articles which really concern the
trader or manufacturer enjoying the registration made in his favour. In our
view, if rectification in such circumstances is not allowed, the trader or
manufacturer by virtue of earlier registration will be permitted to enjoy the
mischief of trafficking in trade mark. Looking to the scheme of the
registration of trade ark as envisaged in the Trade Marks Act and the Rules
framed thereunder, it appears to us that registration of a trade mark cannot
be held to be absolute, perpetual and invariable under all circumstances.
Section 12 of the Trade Marks Act prohibits registration of identical or
deceptively similar trade marks in respect of goods and description of goods
which is identical or deceptively similar to the trade mark already
registered. For prohibiting registration under Section 12(1), goods in respect
of which subsequent registration is sought for, must be (i) in respect of
goods or description of goods being same or similar and covered by earlier
registration and (ii) trade mark claimed for such goods must be same or
deceptively similar to the trade mark already registered. It may be noted here
that under Sub-Section (3) of Section 12 of the Trade Marks Act, in an
appropriate case of honest concurrent use and/or of other special
circumstances, same and deceptively similar trade marks may be permitted to
another by the Registrar, subject to such conditions as may deem just and
proper to the Registrar. It is also to be noted that the expression goods
and description of goods appearing in Section 12(1) of the Trade Marks Act
indicate that registration may be made in respect of one or more goods or of
all goods confirming a general description. The Trade Marks Act has noted
distinction between description of goods forming a genus and separate and
distinctly identifiable goods under the genus in various other sections e.g.,
goods of same description in Section 46, Sections 12 and 34 and class of goods
in Section 18, Rules 12 and 26 read with Fourth Schedule to the Rules framed
under the Act. The dictum laid down in the above said judgment would show
that when the trademark registered by a person is a word of common nature,
unless the said trademark is put in use in his business, he cannot prevent the
other from using the said word in their business.

21(3) Though the learned counsel for the applicants relied upon number of
judgments in support of her contention that even in the absence of similar
goods, injunction was granted by the Courts, I find that in all those cases,
the word used by the parties is either an invented word or a coined word and
not a common word. Hence, the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel for
the applicants cannot be made applicable to the present facts of the case.

21(4). The applicants are having protection under the Trade Marks Act only in
respect of the products, which they are manufacturing and marketing, and not
for the business, which they are not carrying on, since the word registered by
them namely "AACHI", is a common word. The applicants herein are not doing
restaurant business, though they registered a trademark in respect of
restaurant business. Hence, I am of the opinion that they are not entitled for
interim injunction.

21(5) But, the learned counsel for the applicants relied upon the judgment
reported in AIR 1972 SC 232 (The State of U.P. Vs. Ram Nath) and submitted
that even if the trademark is abandoned by a registered user, it can only
furnish a ground for a person to make an application under Section 46 of the
Trade Marks Act to have the trade mark removed from the registers and it does
not entitle him to use a trade mark.

21(6) The factual aspects of that case would show that the respondents 1 to 4
therein, who are the partners of the firm M/s.Pannalal Durga Prasad of
Nayalion, Kanpur, were minting gold coins with a trade mark said to be similar
to that of the appellant therein viz., M/s.Habib Bank Ltd. Hence, a criminal
complaint was lodged against the respondents therein under Sections 78 and 79
of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act. In this regard, a letter was written
by the Inspector of Trade Marks on behalf of the Director of Industries, to
the Additional City Magistrate-I, Kanpur to take necessary action. On receipt
of the said letter, the Magistrate directed the Police to register a case and
investigate the same. Accordingly, a police report was made to the Magistrate,
who adopted the procedure under Section 251-A under the old code of Cr.P.C. by
examining each of the respondents, after which he framed charges against them.
During the course of the trial, the respondents therein filed an application
stating that Habib Bank had stopped dealing in gold and does not manufacture
gold coins and that it had also destroyed the dies and since 1954 the trade
mark of Habib Bank had become ineffective and was thrown open to the public.
But, the Magistrate had dismissed the application filed by the respondent and
directed the production of the entire evidence on the next date. Against this
order, a revision was filed before the Sessions Judge of Kanpur. The Sessions
Judge made a reference to the High Curt recommending the quashing of the
charge on the ground that The principle of abandonment is given legal
recognition in Section 46, Trade & Merchandise Marks Act which provides that a
registered trade mark may be taken off the register if it was not used for
continuous period of five years or longer. The High Court had accepted the
reference made by the Sessions Judge and quashed the proceedings against the
accused for offences under Sections 78 and 79 of the Act, against which an
appeal was filed before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. Only while dealing with the
Sections 78 & 79 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act , the Hon'ble Supreme
Court has held that since the trademark was abandoned, it will not entitled
the accused person to use the trademark.

21(7) The dictum laid down in the said judgment would show that in a criminal
case lodged under Sections 78 & 79 of the Trade mark and Merchandise Marks
Act, the respondents 1 to 4 therein had taken a defence with an intention to
escape from the criminal liability stating that since the Habib Bank had
stopped dealing in gold and does not manufacture gold coins, the criminal case
is not maintainable against them. The said judgment cannot be made applicable
to the present facts of the case. In the case on hand, the point that has to
be gone into is as to whether the word AACHI is a common word or not and if
so, whether the said word is in usage by the applicants in their restaurant
business, and whether the applicants are entitled for grant of interim
injunction, since the applicants are alleging infringement of their trademark
by the respondent. As observed earlier, the applicants are not entitled for
grant of interim injunction, since the word AACHI registered by them in
respect of restaurant business is a common word, and unless the same is put
into use in the restaurant business, the applicants cannot prevent others from
using the same. Therefore, I am not inclined to accept the submission made by
the learned counsel for the applicants by relying upon the said judgment.

22.Question No.III :- It is yet another contention of the learned counsel for
the applicants that the word 'AACHI' has been registered as Trademark of the
applicants and by continuous and long usage of the said word AACHI by the
applicants, it has acquired a secondary meaning. But, I am of the opinion,
even assuming for a moment the word 'AACHI' acquired the secondary meaning,
the applicant can claim protection only in respect of the products that they
are manufacturing and marketing under the registered trade mark 'AACHI' and
not for the business which they are not carrying on since the said trade mark
is common word. Further more, whether the word AACHI has acquired secondary
meaning or not in respect of Restaurant business could be gone into only at
the time of the trial on the basis of the oral and documentary evidence that
may be adduced.

23.In view of the above discussion, I am of the opinion that the applicants
have not made out a case for granting interim junction. Hence, these
applications are liable to be dismissed.

24.It is contended by the learned counsel for the applicants that the
respondent has adopted the oval shaped label mark AACHI, which is the label
mark of the applicants. But, the said contention was denied by the learned
counsel for the respondent. However, it is made clear that though the
respondent-company is entitled to use the word AACHI in their restaurant
business, they are not entitled to adopt the oval shaped label mark, which is
a registered label mark of the applicants.

In fine, the above applications are dismissed and the interim injunction
granted by this Court is vacated. Consequently, Application Nos. 1595 & 1996
of 2013 are allowed.

ssv

