

Bombay High Court

Glaxo Group Ltd. And Anr. vs Neon Laboratories Ltd. on 3 June, 2003

Equivalent citations: 2004 (29) PTC 88 Bom

Author: S Vazifdar

Bench: S Vazifdar

JUDGMENT S.J. Vazifdar, J.

1\. The plaintiff has filed this suit to restrain the defendants from using,
manufacturing, selling, offering for sale and/or advertising or dealing in any
manner by themselves, their servants, agents, distributors and stockists in
any medicinal or pharmaceutical preparations in any form bearing the trade
marks TOCILLIN', 'CEFTIN' and 'TREX' or any other trade marks which are
deceptively similar to or are a deceptive variation of the plaintiffs marks
'CELIN', 'CEFTUM' and TROX'.

2\. Plaintiff No. 1 is a company incorporated under the laws of England.
Plaintiff No. 2, Glaxo SmithKline Pharmaceutical Ltd., is a company
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913. The plaintiffs manufacture
and carry on business inter alia in medicinal, pharmaceutical and veterinary
preparations. The defendants carry on a similar business.

3\. It is not necessary for me to decide the plaintiffs case regarding its
trade mark CEFTUM as Mr. Tulzapurkar stated that the defendants do not intend
to and shall not use the mark CEFTIN.

4\. The plaintiffs case is that plaintiff No. 1 is the registered proprietor
of the trade mark 'CELIN' in respect of medicinal and pharmaceutical
preparations in class 5. The registration is valid upto 14 September 2006. The
preparations under the trade mark 'CELIN' are manufactured and sold in the
nature of drops and tablets. The plaintiffs claim to have incurred
considerable promotional expenses in relation to the products sold under the
said trade mark. The preparations are sold in every State in India. As a
result thereof they claim that the word mark 'CELIN' is associated by the
medical profession, chemists and the public with the plaintiffs exclusively.

5\. On 25th January 1993 the defendants applied for registration of the trade
mark 'TOCILLIN' for pharmaceutical preparations in class 5. The application
was advertised in the Trade Marks Journal dated 16th June 2001. Plaintiff No.
1 opposed the application by filing a notice of opposition at the trade marks
registry based on its registered trade mark 'CELIN'.

6\. Plaintiff No. 2 is the proprietor of the registered trade mark TROX. The
mark was registered on 8th February 1960 in respect of medicinal and
pharmaceutical preparations. It was originally registered in the name of
British Drug House. Ltd. British Drug House Ltd. was amalgamated with
plaintiff No. 2. By virtue of the amalgamation order dated 26 July 1968 passed
by this Court the trade mark TROX was transferred to plaintiff No. 2.
Applications have been made by the plaintiffs to bring on record the change in
the name of the proprietor of the said mark.

The defendant applied for registration of the trade mark TREX. Plaintiff No. 2
has filed a notice of opposition against the said application based on its
trade mark TROX.

7\. I will first deal with the plaintiffs case for infringement and passing
off in respect of its trade mark TROX.

Plaintiff No. 2 introduced its pharmaceutical preparations under the trade
mark TROX in the year 1974 in India. It introduced veterinary preparations
under the trade mark TROX on 7th January 2000. The sales of the plaintiffs
products under the trade mark TROX in the year 2000 was Rs. 94,00,000 and in
the year 2001, Rs. 95,00,000. Plaintiff No. 2 has also incurred considerable
promotional expenses in relation to its products sold under the trade mark
TROX. On 25th February 2002 plaintiff No. 2 filed an application for
registration of the trade mark TROX in respect of pharmaceutical and
veterinary preparations in class 5 and claiming user since 1974 agreed for the
association of the new application with the registered trade mark No. 194383
i.e. the aforesaid registration dated 8th February 1960. The preparations of
plaintiff No. 2 bearing the trade mark TROX are sold in every State in India.
The plaintiffs contend that as a result of the large and extensive sales of
their products bearing the trade mark TROX and the promotional expenses
incurred by them, the members of the medical profession, chemists and the
public associate the word mark TROX with plaintiff No. 2 exclusively.

8\. The plaintiffs reputation in its mark TROX is established. Its user of the
same over the years and the extent of its user has not been seriously
controverted.

9\. Judging the marks as a matter of first impression and applying the test of
an ordinary person with average intelligence and an imperfect recollection the
case must be answered in the plaintiffs favour. If the two marks TROX and TREX
are seen as a whole there is no doubt whatsoever that there is a likelihood of
confusion in view of the deceptive similarity between the two. The
substitution of the letter 'O' with the letter 'E' makes no difference. The
two marks are visually and phonetically almost identical. There is a very high
possibility of a mispronunciation leading a person to mistake one mark for the
other. A perfect pronunciation, a clear enunciation of the words may indicate
the difference. But words such as these are not always so pronounced. Moreover
it is useful to mention, as has been noticed in several decisions, that words
tend not to be properly enunciated and in particular the ending of words is
often slurred. Even if either of the marks is pronounced correctly there is an
equally high possibility of the person hearing the same to mistake one for the
other. Indeed the likelihood of confusion or deception is so apparent and
6bvious that I find it: unnecessary to enter into any detailed consideration
of the law on this aspect. As far as these marks are concerned it is not even
necessary for the plaintiff to rely upon the well established principle that
public interest would support lesser degree of proof showing the confusing
similarity in the case of trade marks in respect of medicinal products as
against non-medicinal products. It will suffice, in this regard, to merely
refer to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Cadila Health Care Ltd. v.
Cadila Pharmaceutical Ltd., .

10\. I have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that the essential
features of the plaintiffs trade mark have been adopted by the defendant.
There is a high probability that persons familiar with only one of the marks
would mistake one product for the other when confronted with it. The doctrine
of wonderment would clearly apply to these marks. Moreover, the products of
the plaintiffs and of the defendants relate to medicinal preparations. The
possibility therefore of confusion and deception is enhanced.

11\. Considering the nature of the defendants mark I have little hesitation in
coming to the conclusion that it has sought to take advantage of the
reputation and goodwill acquired by the plaintiffs marks. The defendant has
thereby infringed the plaintiffs mark. The defendant is also guilty of passing
off its business as that of the plaintiffs business and trade. There is also
clearly a likelihood of the plaintiffs suffering damages in the event of the
defendants products being of an inferior quality. As held by this Court in
Podar Tyres Ltd. v. Bedrock Sales Corporation, , any act or omission of the
defendants would have a repercussion on the credit, reputation and goodwill of
the plaintiffs.

12\. Mr. Tulzapurkar submitted that the defendants mark is derived from the
active ingredient of the drug methotrexate. He submitted that the plaintiffs
products sold under the trade mark TROX is a veterinary drug whereas the
defendants products sold under the trade marks TREX is an anti-cancer drug for
human consumption in an indictable from. Hence, he contended, there can be no
confusion as far as the two products are concerned. I am unable to accept the
submission.

13\. Mr. Daruwalla, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the plaintiffs,
relied upon the judgment in UNIVER Trade Mark, 1993 RPC 239, It was an appeal
in the matter of an application to register the trade mark UNIVER which was
refused by the registrar of trade marks and came before the court by way of
appeal. The applicant applied for registration of the trade mark UNIVER in
respect of pharmaceutical preparations- The goods applied for related to
cardio-vascular preparations. The applicants were prepared to further qualify
that the same would be used only for treating humans and would be supplied
only if prescribed by a registered medical practitioner. Objection was taken
to the application on the ground that the mark conflicted with the mark UNIVET
which was registered for veterinary preparations and substances, disinfectants
(other than for laying or absorbing dust) for veterinary use. The proprietors
of the cited mark were willing to voluntarily part-cancel their goods leaving
only: "veterinary preparations and substances, all being for sale wholesale to
veterinary surgeons." The registrar therefore proceeded on the assumption that
the comparison of goods was between these restricted lists.

It was submitted on behalf of the applicant that the trade channels would be
entirely and completely separate having regard in particular to the
applicant's willingness to restrict their goods to supply only by doctors
prescription. It is important to note that evidence was filed in support of
this submission. One of the affiants stated that with the then current level
of good pharmacy practice he believed that there could never be any danger to
public health arising out of confusion at any level of a trade channel such
that pharmaceutical products for human use and a veterinary product, both with
a similar name, might be interchanged. The registrar held that the evidence
did not satisfy him that his original concern about the scope for confusion at
the wholesale link in the trade channel was misplaced. He observed that the
qualified statement persuaded him to err on the side of caution and held: "I
do not believed it should be left to" good pharmacy practice" to act as a
safety net where lives may be endangered." It is further important to note
that in that case the impugned mark was in fact in use and there was no
suggestion that any trouble had arisen from its use. The registrar in refusing
registration relied upon the following observations made by Lloyd Jacob J. in
Harker Stagg Ltd.'s Trade Mark, (1953) 70 RPC 205 at 210:-

".... if there were, or is, any reasonable ground for supposing that by reason
of their similarity confusion or deception is likely to arise, the fact that
they are used in relation to a pharmaceutical preparation is, perhaps, all the
more reason for seeing that the public are protected from the consequences of
deception and confusion."

These observations were pressed into service in the case where the rival marks
were used for veterinary preparations and medicinal preparations for human
consumption. The decision and the reliance upon the aforesaid observations
were affirmed by the court in the appeal.

14\. The reliance upon the decision is well founded. In the case before me the
defendants have not even attempted to demonstrate in any manner that there is
no possibility of a pharmaceutical product for human use being confused with a
veterinary product, in the course of marketing. A discussion on the disastrous
effects caused by any confusion leading a person or an animal to take one drug
instead of the other is unnecessary. The confusion may occur not only if the
nature of the drugs is different but also due to the different dosages that
may be prescribed for human beings and animals. The consequences are obvious.

15\. Mr. Tulzapurkar submitted that the judgment in the UNIVER case would not
assist the plaintiff as that was a case of registration where the onus is on
the applicant. However both are medicinal products. The marks are deceptively
similar. It was therefore for the defendants to satisfy the court that there
was no possibility of confusion arising from a mix-up in the trade channels.
Let me put the plaintiffs case, which in this respect really concerns the
interests of the public in general, at its lowest. Apart from an argument of
Mr. Tulzapurkar's which I shall deal with next, there is nothing to suggest
that there is no possibility of the trade channels being mixed up. If so, in
matters such as these it is, again to say the least, advisable that a court
errs on the side of caution-especially at the interlocutory stage. In so doing
I would grant the injunction.

16\. Mr. Tulzapurkar further submitted that the plaintiffs themselves sold
products for human consumption as well as veterinary products under the same
trade mark, TROX. This therefore belied the plaintiffs contention that there
could be confusion, deception or any harmful effects as a result of the mark
being used by the defendants for its products. If the plaintiffs can
successfully and safely use TROX for both, veterinary products and products
for human consumption, there is no reason why the use of the mark TREX by the
defendant for its products would be unsafe. The argument, though at first
blush attractive, is unfounded. In this regard I am entirely in agreement with
the following observations of the registrar in the Univer case:-

"The agent prays in aid the fact that the registrar will allow the same mark
to be used by the same company on both veterinary and pharmaceutical goods. Of
course he does as there is nothing in the law to prevent it, nor in my view,
is there any need to be. The company will have total control over marketing
their goods and it would be commercial suicide to allow the slightest chance
of error. That is not the position where different companies are involved. Who
takes responsibility?"

There is not even a suggestion, by the defendant, that the plaintiffs have not
or may not take care to ensure that their medicinal preparations for
veterinary use and for human consumption have been or are likely to be mixed
up by the plaintiffs for any reason whatever. It would indeed be highly
improbable that a manufacturer of such medicinal preparations would not ensure
that the trade channels are not mixed-up. No useful purpose could possibly be
served by their neglecting to do so. No such safeguard is shown to exist where
different manufacturers are involved. None have been suggested before me.

There of course always remains the additional aspect in this case that the
plaintiffs before me have made no concession as did the proprietor of the mark
UNIVET. The plaintiffs here apply the mark TROX both, to products for human
consumption and for veterinary use.

17\. Even assuming that confusion arising from the trade channels being mixed
up in respect of the same manufacturers goods under the same trade mark for
human consumption and for veterinary purposes, is possible the same would not
entitle another manufacturer to add to the confusion or deception. The remedy
may then well be to prevent the manufacturer from causing such confusion.

18\. This then brings me to the plaintiffs case regarding the trade mark
'CELIN' and 'TOCILLIN'. Mr. Tulzapurkar fairly did not deny that 'CELIN' is an
invented word. It is not necessary therefore to refer to the authorities
relied upon by Mr. Daruwalla in support of his submission that 'CELIN' is an
invented word. Nor did Mr. Tulzapurkar deny the fact that the plaintiffs have
a considerable reputation in this mark. It is not necessary therefore for me
to deal with the evidence in this regard.

19\. There is no visual similarity between the two marks. No doubt the letter
'I' after the letter 'C in the mark TOCILLIN' instead of the letter 'E' in the
mark 'CELIN' would make no difference. However the letters 'TO' which precede
the letters 'CILIN' ensure that there is no visual similarity between the two
marks. When judged by the eye alone they are quite obviously different,
distinguishable and there is no real danger of one being confused with the
other. I say so even presuming that a prescription is written in a doctor's
notoriously bad handwriting. I do not see how a person reading the two marks
can mistake one for the other. I am unable therefore to agree with Mr.
Daruwalla's submission that on a doctor's prescription stating "2 -'CELIN'" or
'Two-celin' prescribing the plaintiffs products, the defendants product
'TOCILLIN' is likely to be sold by the chemist and bought by unwary
purchasers.

The only question is whether the marks are phonetically similar. The answer
does not admit of a simple yes or no.

20\. If the person speaking the word and the person hearing it are aware that
it is but one word, I would rule out the possibility of any phonetic
similarity. The letters 'TO' ensure this. This would be so irrespective of the
manner in which the word mark 'TOCILLIN' is pronounced. The letters 'TO' could
be pronounced as 'two' followed by the word 'cillin'. In other words it could
be pronounced as 'twocillin'. It may also be pronounced as 'tochcillin' or
'toecillin'. Whichever way it is pronounced, phonetically it would clearly be
different from the pronunciation of the plaintiffs word mark 'CELIN'. I am
supported in this view by a principle enunciated in a judgment of a Division
Bench of this Court cited by Mr. Tulzapurkar in the case of Juhann A. Wulfing
v. I and P Laboratories Ltd., AIR 1984 Bombay 283 where it was held:-

"... "The first syllable of a word mark is generally the most important" as
there is a "tendency of persons using the English language to slur the
termination of words". (Kerley's Law of Trade Marks, 11th edition p 416). In
Re. Bayer Products, (1947) 64 RPC 125, it was held that "Diasil" and "Alacil"
were not deceptively similar or likely to cause confusion. Where the first two
syllables arc different, there is little likelihood of confusion. So was it
observed by the Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Mount Mettur v.
Ortha Corporation, while holding, that UTOGYNOL and OR-THOGYNOL were not
deceptively similar."

The commentary in Kerley is based on a long line of cases. It would be useful
to refer to the case of London Lubricants - (1925) 42 RPC 264 where the Court
of Appeal observed at p. 279:-

"But the tendency of persons using the English language to slur the
termination of words also has the effect necessarily that the beginning of
words is accentuated in comparison, and, in my judgment, the first syllable of
a word is, as a rule, far the most important for the purpose of distinction."

21\. I accept therefore, Mr. Tulzapurkar's submission that the letters
'CILLIN' being preceded by the letters 'TO' negates the possibility of any
phonetic confusion leading to the word 'TOCILLIN' being mistaken for the word
'CELIN' and vice-versa. There is nothing that persuades me to presume or even
think that the syllable 'TO' will be dropped or slurred over in ordinary use.
In fact the distinctiveness of the syllable 'TO' and its place as a prefix to
the word mark 'TOCILLIN' would tend to it being accentuated. This of course is
provided, as I have said earlier, that the person who utters the word mark and
the person who hears it are aware that it is but one word. The matter however
does not rest therefor, it may not always be so and the matter therefore
always not so simple.

22\. It is the nature of the prefix 'TO' and the nature of the products to
which the mark is applied, medicinal products that may be sold in quantities
exceeding one, and not the mere existence of a prefix that is relevant. Let me
explain. The nature of the prefix can suggest the numeral 2. It is not unknown
that doctors often prescribed drugs on the telephone. Nor is it unknown that
patients order drugs from the pharmacist on the telephone. They also order
drugs across the counter without a prescription. It is not inconceivable that
if the defendant's product, TOCILLIN', is prescribed the person to whom it is
prescribed may hear or understand it as two of the plaintiffs products sold
under the mark 'CELIN'. Conversely if two of the plaintiffs products sold
under the mark 'CELIN' are prescribed it is not inconceivable that the person
hearing it may understand it to mean the defendant's product 'TOCILLIN'. The
possibility of confusion cannot therefore be ruled out. The Supreme Court in
Cadila's case, cited with approval the observation of the House of Lords in
Aristoc Ltd. v. Rysta Ltd., (1945 (62) RPC 65 at p 72) that the court must be
careful to make allowance for careless pronunciation and speech on the part
not only of the person seeking to buy under the trade description, but also of
the shop assistant ministering to that persons wants. I venture to add a
circumstance justifying this need for caution at least in our country. Being
available even without a prescription it is not always that the persons who
are prescribed the medicine themselves purchase it. They often delegated that
duty to another. This can only compound the confusion caused by careless
pronunciation. The plaintiff must therefore succeed in its case for
infringement.

23\. Added to this is the fact that we are dealing here with medicinal
products. The consequences of any confusion can be drastic. It is obvious that
a person prescribed the plaintiffs vitamin C product would be adversely
affected if by reason of any confusion he were to consume the defendants
antibiotic drug sold under the mark 'TOCILLIN'. A person prescribed the
defendants antibiotic drug sold under the mark 'TOCILLIN' may or may not be
adversely affected merely by mistakenly consuming the plaintiffs vitamin C
products. In other words the vitamin C itself may not be harmful to a person
prescribed antibiotics consuming it. Adverse consequences can however also
result by the patient not consuming the antibiotic drug which he ought to. The
adverse effects by consuming a wrong drug are not limited to cases where the
wrong drug itself has an adverse effect on the patient. The adverse effect can
also arise from the patient not consuming the drug that is prescribed.

24; It would be clear from the above discussion that my conclusion that the
mark 'TOCILLIN' is deceptively similar to the mark 'CELIN' and can cause
confusion is based essentially on the fact that the products are not
necessarily prescribed or sold in quantities not exceeding one. Indeed
normally if not invariably, more than one capsule/item would be sold. They are
not cars, cameras, computers or such other items which people normally buy
only one of. The effect of a prefix would therefore necessarily have to be
decided depending on the nature of the product and the nature of the prefix.
It is the nature of the products and the nature and the effect of the syllable
'TO' that prefixes the word CILLIN that have led me to the conclusion of there
being a probability of confusion despite my finding that the word CILLIN
follows a distinctive prefix.

25\. In this view of the matter Mr. Tulzapurkar's reliance upon a judgment of
the Delhi High Court in E.R. Squibb & Sons Inc. v. Curwel India Ltd., is of no
assistance to him. The rival marks there were Curechlor and 'Reclor'. It was
held that the former mark was not deceptively similar to the latter. However,
the prefix 'Cur' is different from the prefix in the present case. It is not a
numeral and therefore did not connote a quantum which the prefix 'TO' in this
case does. The case is therefore distinguishable on facts.

26\. Mr. Daruwalla placed strong reliance upon the judgment of a learned
single Judge of this Court (S.J. Kapadia, J.) in the case of American Home
Products Corporation and Anr. v. Lupin Laboratories Ltd., 1996 IPLR 61. The
rival marks were ROLAC and TOROLAC, the former being a registered trade mark
of the plaintiffs. The facts of this case are indeed very similar to the facts
of the judgment. It is necessary therefore to set out the reasons given by the
learned Judge for granting the injunction. They read as under:-

"Applying the tests laid down by the Supreme Court to the facts of the present
case, I find considerable merit in the contentions advanced on behalf of the
plaintiffs on the question of applying the tests to ascertain deceptive
similarity between the two marks. In the present case, 1 am at an interim
stage. At this stage, the question is whether the use of the mark TOROLAC
infringes the registered trade mark ROLAC. Firstly it may be noted that the
mark ROLAC has been registered in the year 1986. The said registration was
given adequate publicity. It was advertised in the Trade Marks Journal No. 953
dated 16 February 1989. Secondly, the word ROLAC is an invented word which is
very important in the matters of deciding whether infringement has resulted or
not. It is not an ordinary or a generic word like COLA which can be used with
another word which is known to the trade like COCA-COLA or PEPSI-COLA. Thirdly
we are dealing with medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations. The preparation
of the plaintiffs has a therapeutic value whereas preparation of the
defendants has an analgesic effect. Plaintiffs have filed a detailed affidavit
to indicate the disastrous consequences which may flow if there is a mix-up in
the matter of consumption of the two preparations. It is pointed out in
paragraph 17 of the plaint that TOROLAC being an analgesic will not be of any
therapeutic use for patients of acidity who will not get symptomatic relief.
On the contrary, the patient's condition could worsen because TOROLAC contains
toxic potentials and side effects. It is pointed out that the patients who
continue to take TOROLAC thinking that it is ROLAC would take, on an average,
eight tablets per day against, recommendation of oral dosage of 10 mg every
six hours which could lead to disastrous consequences and damage the health of
the patients suffering from peptic ulcer. It is also pointed out that even in
patients with less severe symptoms of acidity there is every chance of the
symptoms getting aggravated and, therefore, the consequences would be
disastrous. Fourthly it is pointed out that the entire trade mark TOROLAC has
been borrowed and adopted by merely prefixing it with the two letters 'TO'
which clearly indicates that even on first impression, the essential features
of both marks are deceptively similar and it constitutes coloured imitation or
nearing resemblance. In the circumstances, probable confusion cannot be ruled
out. It is well settled that when considering the infringement of a registered
trade mark, it is important to bear in mind the difference between the test
for infringement and the test in passing off action. In a passing off action,
the courts look to see whether there is misrepresentation whereas in
infringement matters, it is important to note that the Trade Mark Act gives to
the proprietor, an exclusive right to the use of the mark which will be
infringed in the case of identical marks and, in the case of similar marks,
even though there is no misrepresentation, infringement can still take place.
The statute law relating to infringement of trade marks is based on certain
fundamental ideas which may be common to the law relating to passing off, but
it differs in two particular aspects, namely, the use of trade mark is one of
the methods of passing off and secondly, the statutory protection in the case
of registered trade mark is absolute in the sense that once a mark is shown to
offend, the user of it cannot escape by showing something outside the actual
mark itself. Therefore, infringement takes place, not merely by exact
imitation, but by the use of the mark sold nearly resembling the registered
mark as likely to be deceptive (see 1941 (58) RPC 147 at page 161). The above
test is also laid down in several judgments of the Supreme Court. In the
present case, there is resemblance between ROLAC and TOROLAC. The said
resemblance is structural as well as visual and phonetic. The sound of one
resembles the sound of the other on first impression. Fifthly, it is also
important to bear in mind that if a patient who knows only one word has
imperfect recollection of the said word, he is likely to be deceived or
confused when he purchases the medicine. No patient goes to the chemist for
purchase of both the medicines ROLAC and TOROLAC. He will go for one of them
and he may not recollect the other in which event, is likely to be deceived or
confused which may lead to disastrous consequences. In the above
circumstances, the doctrine of wonderment is also applicable to the facts of
the present case. In the present case, I do not find any merit in the
contentions of the defendants that the word TORO will make a difference. There
is also no merit in the contention of the defendants that the word TORO is
emphatic because in such cases meticulous comparison of the two words, letter
by letter and syllable by syllable pronounced with the clarity to be expected
from a teacher of elocution is not possible. In such cases, the courts have
laid down a very important test which, to my mind, applies in this case viz.,
to make allowance for imperfect recollection and the effect of careless
pronunciation and speech on the part of the patient and also on the part of
the chemist. Therefore, it is the judicial year that is decisive and the
conclusion must be based on the surrounding circumstances. Applying the above
text, in the present case, I am satisfied that the plaintiffs have raised a
serious contention which requires consideration. It is not possible for the
defendants to contend that serious consideration of the facts is not involved
at the trial of the suit, particularly when the two marks are confusingly
similar. They are close in sound and site. A person who only knows ROLAC and
who has an imperfect recollection will be deceived and confused if the chemist
gave him TOROLAC and vice-versa. In the circumstances, I find merit in the
contentions advanced on behalf of the plaintiffs with regard to deceptive
similarity between the two medical preparations which may lead to disastrous
consequences, as stated herein above."

27\. The facts are in many respects similar to the facts in the present case.
The prefix in both the cases viz., the letters 'TO' are the same. I am however
satisfied basing my decision on the reasoning adopted by me earlier. As
pointed out by Mr. Tulzapurkar, one of the differences between the case in
American Home Products and the present case is that the word ROWLAC is a
totally invented word whereas the word 'CELIN' is part of a generic term.
Moreover it is a well-established principle, reiterated in American Home
Products, that every case depends on its own facts and the value of
authorities lies not so much in the actual decision as in the tests applied
for determining what is likely to deceive or cause confusion. I do not read
the decision as having laid down as a rule that in every case the mere
existence of a prefix or even the mere existence of the letters 'TO' as a
prefix to a registered mark would lead to infringement. The judgment on this
aspect is therefore not binding as a precedent in all cases where a trade mark
is prefixed with the letters 'TO'. On the other hand in Johann A. Wulfing v. I
& P Laboratories Ltd. (supra) the Division Bench, accepting the passage from
Kerley, laid down as a principle that the first syllable of a word of mark is
generally the most important. The judgment was not brought to the notice of
the learned Judge in American Home Products. Mr. Daruwalla was unable to
effectively controvert the submission. It is by applying this principle among
others that I have come to the conclusion that there is no phonetic similarity
between the marks CELIN and TOCILLIN save as I have already discussed.

28\. Mr. Tulzapurkar submitted that 'TOCILLIN' can only be sold on a doctor's
description. This fact he submitted ought to weigh in the defendant's favour.
I am unable to agree. A long line of decisions resting with the judgment of
the Supreme Court in Cadila's case negates this contention. Considering the
nature of the products in the present case and my above findings, the fact
that the defendants products under the mark TOCILLIN' can be sold only on a
doctor's prescription is virtually of no importance.

29\. The defendants explanation for the adoption of the mark TOCILLIN' does
not inspire confidence either, at least at this stage. In paragraph 21 of the
affidavit in reply it is contended that the word 'TOCILLIN' denotes that the
drug has two active ingredients namely ampicillin and cloxacillin and that the
mark had therefore been coined/derived to indicate that two ingredients were
present in the compound. As rightly pointed out by Mr. Daruwalla, if that were
true the prefix would have been the letters 'TWO' and not 'TO'. Prima-facie I
am not inclined to accept the defendants explanation for adopting the mark
TOCILLIN'.

30\. In view of this conclusion Mr. Tulzapurkar's submission based on the
series theory may not carry him far. In any event there really is no evidence
produced by the defendants to support the series argument. Apart from
averments to the effect that there are various marks in the market
derived/coined in this manner, there is no evidence to establish the
plaintiffs case even prima-fade on the series argument. The plaintiffs in
their rejoinder denied the averments and put the defendants to the proof
thereof. Despite the same the defendant did not produce any proof. Mr.
Daruwalla objected to Mr. Tulzapurkar relying upon the Indian Pharmaceutical
Guide on the ground that the defendant had not relied upon the same. In view
thereof Mr. Tulzapurkar fairly did not pursue the reliance upon the same. He
however relied upon various judgments in support of this argument. In view of
the absence of any proof in this regard the judgments are of no assistance to
him.

31\. Recently in Pidilite Industries Ltd. v. S.M. Associates and Ors., 2003
(2) LJSOFT (URC) 4- I rejected the contention that though at the trial proof
of extensive use of the series of marks is required, at the interim stage it
is not. It was contended in that case on behalf of the defendants that the
decision of the Supreme Court in Com Products v. Shangrila Food Products, can
be of no assistance as that was in the proceeding at the final hearing of the
suit. The Supreme Court held that the principle clearly requires that the
marks comprising the common element should be in fairly extensive use. It was
further held that the series of marks containing the common element or
elements therefore only assist the applicant when these marks are in extensive
use in the market. The onus of proving such user is on the applicant who wants
to rely on those marks. After dealing with various judgments on the aspect I
rejected the submission that at the prima facie stage it is enough to show
mere user and that it is not necessary for the defendant to show the extent of
user. One of the judgments on which Mr. Tulzapurkar placed reliance was a
judgment of a learned Single Judge of this Court in Reckitt & Coleman of India
Ltd. v. Medicross Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd., 1994 IPLR 31. Mr. Tulzapurkar
also relied upon an unreported judgment of a learned Single Judge of this
Court in Kopran Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Sigma Laboratories, (Notice of Motion No.
1309 of 1990 in Suit No. 1308 of 1990) which in turn referred to the judgment
in Reckitt & Calman's case. Paragraphs 56 to 60 of my judgment read as under:-

56\. Faced with this situation, Dr. Shivade submitted that the judgment in Com
Products can be of no assistance as that was in a proceeding at the final
hearing of the suit. In support of his contention, he relied upon a judgment
of a learned Single Judge of this Court in Reckitt & Coleman of India Ltd. v.
Medicross Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd., 1994 IPLR 31. In that case the Plaintiff
was a registered proprietor of a trade mark DISPRIN. The Defendants sold their
medicinal products under the mark MEDISPRIN. Dismissing the Plaintiffs
application for injunction to prevent infringement and passing off, N.D. Vyas,
J. (as he then was) held in paragraph 13 as under:

"13. It was next submitted by Mr. Tulzapurkar, relying on the decision of the
Supreme Court in Corn Products Refining Co. v. Shangrila Food Products Ltd.,
that it was defendants submission that their mark contained a common element
because of their drug containing Aspirin and that there were series of marks
in extensive use in the market and; therefore, the onus of proving such
extensive user was on defendants who wanted to rely on such marks. This onus,
according to Mr. Tulzapurkar, is not discharged. Mr. Patel, in reply,
submitted that the said decision which requires evidence of use of the marks
having common prefix was rendered on and would be applicable to a matter
decided on final hearing after evidence is led. Thus, according to him at the
interim stage it would be prima facie sufficient to show that marks with
suffix "Sprin" are in use with reference to Indian Pharmaceutical Guide and
that in the instant case the defendants were not merely referring to, the
marks on the Trade Mark Register but to marks of products which are in use as
indicated in the said Guide. I see considerable force in Mr. Patel's
submission. Prima facie, I am satisfied that several products containing
Aspirin and having their trade marks with a suffix of "Sprin" are in use.
Moreover, the fact of such products marketed under such marks is not disputed.
In these circumstances, I reject Mr. Tuizapurkar's submission."

57\. I am unable to accept the submission that the ratio consisted of
accepting the submission on behalf of the Defendant that the judgment of the
Supreme Court in Com Products would only be applicable to a matter decided at
the final hearing after evidence is led. The above extract itself indicates
that the learned Judge accepted as sufficient at the interim stage, the
evidence produced before him to establish prima-facie that several marks with
the suffix "Sprin" were in fact in use. It is difficult to read the judgment
as having held that though at the trial proof of extensive use of the series
of marks is required at the interim stage it is not.

58\. The fallacy of this submission lies in the misconception that the issue
to be proved is different at different stages of legal proceedings. Whatever
the stage of the proceedings, the issue to be proved or the content of the
proof remains the same. It is the level of proof that varies depending on
whether the order sought is at the interim stage or at the final hearing.

The judgment in Com Products requires the Defendant to prove that the marks
must be not merely in use but in "extensive use". Thus, even in interim
proceedings, it is not sufficient merely for the Defendant to show prima-facie
that there is some user of the marks. There must be prima facie evidence to
show extensive use. At the final hearing of the suit the level of proof
required is higher - the matter requiring to be proved viz. "extensive or
substantial use" remaining the same.

For instance, in a given case, a Defendant may well establish conclusively in
interlocutory proceedings that there was actual use of the marks in the
market. He would thus have fulfilled the first requirement viz. actual use. He
may however candidly admit that the extent of use is minimal. The Defendant
could not in such circumstances resist an injunction on the series argument
contending that at the interim stage the extent of use is not material.

59\. A Division Bench of this Court in Schering Corporation & Ors. v. Kilitch
Co. (Pharma) Pvt. Ltd., 1994 IPLR 1, had occasion, also at the interlocutory
stage, to consider this question in similar circumstances. The judgment was
delivered before the judgment in Reckitt & Coleman case. The judgment is
relevant on facts as well as on law. At page 8 the Division Bench held as
under :-

"One final point requires consideration. According to the Defendants
Affidavit-in-reply, there was a number of similar dermatology products in the
market ending with the suffix Derm. Six such products are enumerated in
paragraph 6 of the said Affidavit-in-reply. It was suggested, which suggestion
appears to have appealed to the learned single Judge, that Curoderm and
Qriderm were in the market and that these marks are also very similar to
Quadriderm, The argument was that if the Plaintiffs have not objected to these
two marks the Plaintiffs are disentitled from objecting to ar at any rate
securing interim relief against the Defendants mark Coriderm. We find no
substance in the plea. Apart from producing tubes and cartons and some bills
the Defendants have not shown the extent of/the sales of these products.
Indeed, at the most it can be assumed that two similar products are in the
market in January 1990. That will not, in our opinion, non-suit the Plaintiffs
or disentitle them to interim relief against the Defendant."

60\. Thus, even if I were to accept Dr. Shinade's, interpretation of the
judgment in Reckitt & Coleman's case I must hold that the same is not good law
in view of the judgment in Schering Corporation and Anr. v. Kilitch Co.
(Pharma) Pvt. Ltd., 1994 IPLR 1 (DB) 61."

32\. Mr. Tulzapurkar also relied upon the judgment of the Supreme Court in
Roche & Co. v. G. Manners and Co., . However that case is distinguishable on
facts. The marks in question in the case were, on behalf of the appellant
"PROTOVIT" and on behalf of the respondent "DROPOVIT". The appellant had
applied for rectification of the register by removal therefrom the respondents
mark on the ground that it so nearly resembled its mark as to be likely to
deceive or cause confusion. The Supreme Court accepted the case stated in the
affidavits of the defendant indicating that the letters "VIT" were a well-
known abbreviation used in the pharmaceutical trade to denote vitamin
preparations. The Supreme Court further observed that even an average customer
would know that in respect of vitamin preparations the word "VIT" occurs in a
large number of trade marks and because of this he would naturally be on his
guard and take special care against making a mistake. The Supreme Court held
that it was apparent that the terminal syllable "VIT" in the two marks is both
descriptive and common to the trade and that if greater regard is paid to the
uncommon element in these two words it is difficult to hold that one will be
mistaken for or confused with the other. The argument based on the principle
of series was thus accepted as on facts the plaintiff had established its
case.

33\. Similarly an unreported judgment of a learned single Judge of this Court
in this case of Lupin Laboratories Ltd. v. Nicholas Piramai India Ltd.,
(Notice of Motion No. 239 of 1998 in Snit No. 4646 of 1997) relied upon by Mr.
Tulzapurkar is of no assistance to him as even there the learned Judge came to
the conclusion on the facts of the case. The plaintiffs mark was "TERF". The
marks which according to plaintiff infringed their rights were "TER2", "TER3"
and "TER4". The learned Judge found that there were many drugs used for the
same purpose having in their names the word "TERF". Moreover, the defendants
had been marketing their drugs under the said marks for about four years.

34\. For the same reason, neither is the reliance by Mr. Tulzapurkar on the
judgment of a learned single Judge of the Calcutta High Court in Griffon
Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. v. Indian National Drug and Co. Pvt. Ltd., 1987 IPLR 9
well founded. The plaintiffs mark there Was SORBILINE and it sought to
restrain the defendant from using the mark SORBITONE. It was found that the
basic ingredient was SOR-BITOL. It was also found that with the prefix SORBI
several medicines were being manufactured and in respect of one of them at
least the plaintiff had not raised any grievance. The court therefore came to
the conclusion that the manufacture of medicine with the prefix SORBE or SORBI
was common in the medical world. Apart from that the defendant had already
been using the marks for about six years before the suit was filed. It was
inter-alia for these reasons that the Court held that the defendants mark will
not and cannot cause deception or confusion among the public.

35\. Mr. Daruwalla's reliance upon a judgment of the Chancery Division in
Stuart Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Rona Laboratories Ltd., 1981 Fleet Street
Reports 20 - in answer to the above judgment is however not appropriate. The
plaintiff alleged that the defendants mark SORBISLO infringed its mark
SORBITRATE. Mr. Daruwalla obviously referred to this judgment in view of the
similarity of the marks in both the cases and the fact that in this case the
plaintiffs succeeded in obtaining an injunction. But the injunction was
granted for altogether different reasons. The series argument was also
rejected for different reasons. It appears that it was rejected as it was
found that in England the prefix SORBI was used only by the plaintiffs and the
defendants so far as the field of preparation of the drugs for the treatment
therein was concerned. It is not that the plaintiff succeeded in obtaining an
injunction despite the defendant having established its case on the series
theory.

36\. In this case there is no evidence of the nature or to the extent required
to sustain a defence on the series argument. I see no reason to take a
different view in the present case from the one that I took in the Pidilite
case. In the circumstances, I would reject Mr. Tulzapurkar's submission based
on the series argument.

37\. The Registrar shall however decide the proceedings before him between the
parties in respect of the said marks on merits. The defendant shall be at
liberty to produce such evidence as it may desire in the proceedings.

38\. In the circumstances the Notice of Motion is made absolute in terms of
prayers (a) to (f). There shall be no orders as to costs.

